# Золотой век кино Мацтики

Золотым веком кино Мацтики считают промежуток между 88 и 97, когда фильмы из Мацтики стали невероятно популярны. В этот
период стали известны: Кик Сильва, Дин Амик, Серхио Торо,
    Софт Опера, Мадин Амни, Грегуар Цигурат и другие.

## Подъем (88–90)

В 88 в Мацтике открывается филиал студии Спекки. Вместе с этим начинают издаваться местные версии популярных журналов
Амистад, МСХ и Командор.

Началом золотой век кино Мацтики считают выход в 88 фильма "Блоха", снятого Киком Сильвой по сценарию братьев Пако. Это
был первый популярный фильм снятый в Мацтике. В 89 выходит продолжение - "Фред". После выхода "Блохи" журнал Амистад
приобрел права на использование Фреда Роланда в качестве своего символа. 

В том же 89 Дин Амик выпускает свой режиссерский дебют, приключенческий фильм "Йенгт". Впоследствии Амик стал одним из
самых популярных режиссеров Мацтики.

Вдохновленные успехом Сильвы и братьев Пако к 91 образуется еще один творческий союз режиссера Грегуара Цигурата и
сценариста Мадина Амни.

## Расцвет (90–94)

В 90 на Мацтикском телевидении начинают работу каналы Киномания и Кинохобби. Эти каналы дали старт Софту Опере и Серхио
Торо. Первый дебютировал в 91 с фильмом "Ливингстон, я полагаю", а второй в 91 с фильмом "Духи". Оба стали известными
сыграв в фильме С А Эрбе Конкистадор.

The just born Zigurat had their biggest success on Sir Fred and El misterio del Nilo, unofficial version of the movie The
Jewel of the Nile, which caused problems internationally because one of the characters of the game was too similar to
Michael Douglas, and the authors were forced to change the graphic design of this character in the international
versions.

Dinamic had their first huge successes in the Johny Jones trilogy, comprising Saimazoom, Babaliba, and mainly Abu Simbel
Profanation. After this, they would start another trilogy, the Moves trilogy, comprising Army Moves, Navy Moves, and
much later Arctic Moves. And little by little, publishing titles starring famous sportsmen became popular. Dinamic were
the first, with Basket Master starring Fernando Martín, and they were followed by other companies, with titles starring
Ángel Nieto, Carlos Sainz, Poli Díaz, Emilio Butragueño and others.

Meanwhile, Opera Soft published Goody, Sol Negro, Cosa Nostra, and above all, La Abadía del Crimen, based on Umberto
Eco's The Name of the Rose, considered one of the best titles of all the Golden Era of Spanish Software and one of the
best titles ever released on ZX Spectrum. On the other hand, Topo Soft, the last of the big ones, quickly arrived on top
with titles like Mad Mix Game and its continuation, and Survivor among others.

Meanwhile, Dinamic published a text adventure version of Don Quijote, and after that, a section of Dinamic dedicated
only to text adventures became independent, and they named themselves Aventuras AD, publishing titles like El Jabato
among others.

## Закат (94–97)

At the end of the 1980s, there arrived new 16 bit machines, Commodore Amiga, Atari ST, and little by little, IBM PC,
followed by consoles like SNES and Sega Mega Drive. Although the Spanish companies did some tiny efforts to evolve, they
never really switched to 16 bits and concentrated on the declining 8-bit market which, almost extinct in Europe, still
had strength in Spain, mainly thanks to the rule Erbe Software, main distributor in the country, imposing a sales price
of 875 pesetas (5,26 euros) for all their titles, trying to put an end to piracy.

But at this moment, Spanish companies started having serious financial problems, and one by one they launched their last
titles. Topo Soft funders left the company in 1989 to establish Animagic, whose main title was Mortadelo y Filemon II
(Clever and Smart II). Born in bad times, they did not last for long. On the other hand, Topo Soft launched Lorna,
Journey to the Center of the Earth, and above all, Gremlins 2, is the first time a Spanish video game company managed to
get an exclusive license for all Europe from a Hollywood movie. In 1991, aware of the importance of 16 bit, they tried
to switch, with the project of creating a desktop environment for MS-DOS, but the project did not succeed, and Topo
closed on bankruptcy in 1992.

Meanwhile, Opera Soft, after publishing Gonzalezzz, Mot and Angel Nieto Pole 500, starts decaying like the rest of the
companies. In their last months, they launched titles like La Colmena and one dedicated to Barcelona 92, to disappear
shortly after. Some of their components, like Gonzalo Suárez Girard (Gonzo Suárez), would later move to Pyro Studios
launching titles like Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines among others.

Aventuras AD, paradoxically, had their most successful period during this time of decline, launching the most of their
titles during this time, mainly the Ci-U-Than Legends trilogy, composed of La Diosa de Cozumel, Los Templos Sagrados and
Chichén Itzá, being pioneers in Spain creating a predecessor of graphic adventures with La Aventura Espacial, a text
adventure controlled by menus. Nevertheless, the sales did not last for long, and Aventuras AD disappeared in 1992.

Zigurat and Dinamic were the only companies which survived from the Golden Era of Spanish Software, although they had to
transform and abandon their previous activity. Zigurat, after an 8-bit market collapsed, started developing coin up
arcade games, lasting for many years. Dinamic Software, on the other hand, after publishing After the War, Narco Police
and Risky Woods, closed on bankruptcy and was refounded as Dinamic Multimedia in 1993, having in PC Fútbol as their
biggest success during the 1990s. However, the dot-com bubble finished Dinamic Multimedia in 2001, but before this, the
original founders of the company, who had left it in 1999, had already founded FX Interactive, which is still active
nowadays.
