# Preface

Read "Welcome to Paranoia." on page 6 of
this booklet. When you're finished, come back
here. Come straight back here. Do not pass
Go. Do not sass The Computer. Failure to
come back here is treason.

Thank you. Now, you may begin to play.
True, you know nothing about the game.
Tough. That's Paranoia for you

Well, if you insist, you may read all of
“Paranoia for Players." which begins on page
5 and ends on page 28. This section is
classified Red. Since you are now a
Troubleshooter, your security clearance is Red.
and you may read ''Paranoia for Players"
without fear of execution. It will teach you a
little bit about the Paranoia universe and the
rules of the game. It also tells you how to
generate your own character. But don't
generate one yet; gamemasters frequently use
pre-generalod characters Isee yours for details).

What's after "Paranoia for Players"?

What is your security clearance, please?
Red? I’m sorry; you are nor cleared to read the
rest of this book. Ihe rest of this book is
classified Ultraviolet. Only gamemasters may
read it. If you read the rest of this book, you
are a traitor, and subject to summary execution.

Of course, we recognize that most of you
will read it anyway, but don't tell your
gamemaster if you do. Pretend you haven't
read it. If he asks, look him straight in the eye,
cross your heart, spit over your shoulder thrice
and promise that you have never, ever read the
book and you have no intention of ever doing
so. We're sure he will believe you.

Oops. Almost forgot to mention — **don't read the adventure!** ("Into the Outdoors With
Gun and Camera" on pages 107 through 134.)
Pretty please? This time we really mean it. An
adventure is a story which the gamemaster
puts your characters through. If you know all
the surprises and the details of the plot in
advance, it's not going to be very interesting
when you play.
 
## Attention, Gamemaster!

Oh, fortunate one! Beloved of The
Computer, you are cleared for all data. Read
”Paranoia for Players" so you know what your
players know. Then, read the rest of the book.
Don't feel that you have to memorize
everything: Paranoia is a game of free-wheeling
improvisation, and if you forget a rule or miss
an important detail, we suggest you just bluff
it out. If you're a novice, "An Introduction to
Gamemastering" (pages 29 though 34) teaches
you the basics. If you're experienced,
"Gamemastering Paranoia" (pages 91 through 106)
provides advanced suggestions and advice for
how to maintain the proper atmosphere of
ignorance and fear, and reduce your players
to quivering submission. Rookies don’t need
to worry about the advanced stuff, though;
learn the basics, and get going.

We include rules for character generation in
"Paranoia for Players." However, the first few
times you play, we suggest you use
pre-generated characters. Fold-Out D provides
six pregeneraled character sheets: fold it out,
cut it off, back up the sheets, and hand them
out to your players. If you don’t want to ruin
this great work of art, trusting that it will one
day have the same resale value as a
Shakespeare first folio or Fantastic Four #1, feel
free to photocopy the character sheets arid cut
up your copies.

We also include a complete, ready to run
mini-epic adventure. "Into the Outdoors with
Gun and Camera." Again, we suggest that the
first time you run Paranoia, you use this
adventure. Paranoia is an unusual game, and
by using our adventure, you'll see how to do
things. Later on, you can devise your own
twisted stories for the delight and tormentation
of your players.
 
## The Fold-Outs

Other publishers just give you a chintzy
book. VW give you more than just pages with
Stuff on 'em; we give you six (count 'em) nifty
Fold-Outs too. These are two-panel pages you
can cold out (get it?) so that one panel extends
out from the booklet.

See? It’s absolutely true; The Computer is
your friend. You're in good manipulatory
appendages with West End.

The Fold-Outs are printed with all sorts of
useful things you use during play, like;

**Fold-Out A:** This is printed with lots of charts
and tables you use in the game.

**Fold-Out B:** Goshwow. More charts and tables.

**Fold-Out C:** This is printed with a blank
character sheet and some forms.

**Fold-Out D:** This is printed with the
pregenerated player-characters which you're
supposed to use in "Into the Outdoors with Gun
and Camera.” You can photocopy them if you
want.

**Fold-Outs E and F:** These are printed with a
slew of maps, rosters, and documents the
gamemaster can use w-hen running "Into the
Outdoors with Gun and Camera." You’re
supposed to yank them out, slice them up, and
hand the maps and documents to your players
at appropriate moments in the game. The
rosters you use yourself to keep track of bots,
non-player characters and other nuisances as
you play. Again, photocopy this stuff if you
prefer.

Isn't this wonderful? Aren't you happy?
Failure to be happy is treason. The Computer
is your friend.

## The Die

Paranoia is played using a 20-sided die. If
you bought the boxed version of the game, you
got one with it. If you bought the book
version, you can get 20-sided dice at most
hobby stores — or you can send us one dollar for
postage and handling and we'll send you one (see page 135). 
