# Паранойя для игроков

Security clearance red - cleared for all players

## 0. Добро пожаловать в Паранойю

May I he of assistance?
Sure. Why don't you tell me how this game works?
I'm sorry, citizen That information is not available at this time.
What do you mean, it's not available?
You are not yet a Troubleshooter. Therefore your security clearance is Infrared. The rules are security clearance Red. You are not cleared to know the rules. At your service.
Huh? Most games are real eager to teach you the rules.
Not Paranoia. In Paranoia, you don't know who your friends are. You don't know who your enemies are. You don't know how your equipment works. You don't know the rules. One thing you know: everyone is out to get you.
Stay alert! Trust no one! Keep your laser handy!
Ignorance and fear; fear and ignorance. Those arc our watchwords.
The back cover copy says something about a computer.
The Computer is your friend! Trust The Computer.
In Paranoia, you play a Troubleshooter in ser¬vice to The Computer. You are The Computer's trusted agent.
 
How did I get to be a Troubleshooter?
You turned in a friend for treason. He was executed for betraying The Computer. The Computer rewarded you for your loyalty.
What is a Troubleshooter supposed to do?
Your job is to root out all traitors and execute them. In other words, to find trouble... and then to shoot it.
What's a "traitor?"
A traitor is an evil and malevolent human who has betrayed his friend The Computer and seeks to destroy The Computer, humanity, Alpha Complex and life as we know it. Traitors must be unmasked and destroyed.
All mutants are traitors. They are genetical¬ly imperfect. They have no place in utopia. They must be eliminated.
All members of secret societies are traitors. They belong to organizations not officially sanctioned by The Computer. They conspire against The Computer. They must be destroyed.
By the way... you are a mutant. And a member of a secret society.
I'm a... mutant?
That's right. All Troubleshooters would be eager to unmask you as a traitor and execute you. You work with many Troubleshooters. All of them carry powerful weapons.
Let me get this straight. I'm a traitor. The punishment for treason is death. My job is to hunt down and kill traitors. I work with other people, who have the same orders. All of them want to kill me.
 
Not exactly. All of them want to kill traitors. They don't know you’re a Commie mutant traitor... yet.
And if they find out that I'm a mutant, they'll kill me?
They'll try. Of course, if you convict them of treason first, then they will be executed, and you may survive. Of course, false accusations of treason are themselves treason.
So I want to prove that they're traitors before they can prove that I'm a traitor. And if I don't... I die.
Precisely. VNfetch out! Traitors are everywhere! By the way: dead traitors cannot testify to their own innocence — or against you. It is best to shoot first and ask questions later.
Stay alert! Trust no one! Keep your laser handy!
Are you sure this is going to be fun?
Certainly, citizen! Of course it will be fun. The Computer says so, and The Computer is your friend. Can you doubt The Computer? Doubting The Computer is treason.
No! No, certainly not. If The Computer says this will be fun, then this certainly will be fun. Only a Commie mutant traitor could believe otherwise.
Excellent, citizen! You're getting the idea. You have just been promoted to security clearance Red. Welcome to Paranoia. 


## 1. Жизнь в утопии

Greetings, Citizen!
You are a citizen of the far future. Your home is Alpha Complex.
Humanity has advanced greatly since the bad old days of the 20th Century. There is no war. There is no famine. There is no disease. Alpha Complex is a utopia, run by a benevolent and omniscient computer. The Computer is your friend. The Computer pro¬vides for your needs. The Computer ensures that each and every citizen of Alpha Complex is happy.
Failure to be happy is treason. Treason is punishable by summary execution.
You are happy' — aren't you?
We thought so.
You are a clone. According to legend, humans once reproduced by rutting, like vile animals. This is no longer true. Humans are grown in clone banks by The Computer. There is no longer any need for the messy ran¬domness of love, romance and childbirth. The Computer makes certain that every human is genetically perfect in every respect.
See what love The Computer has for its citizens? The Computer is your friend. Trust The Computer.
farh human is part of a done family of six genetically-identical siblings. This is so that no one is ever lonely. Also, The Computer is well aware of the importance of making back-ups, 
in case of accidental loss or erasure. The Com¬puter is wise. The Computer is benevolent. The Computer is your friend.
The Computer provides everything for the happy' citizens of Alpha Complex. It provides food. It provides shelter. It provides entertain¬ment. It provides challenging and meaningful work. It provides for the spiritual and psychological needs of each of its citizens. It exists to serve you.
But... Alpha Complex is at war. It has been at war for all of recorded history'. There is con¬stant danger of infiltration by tire enemy. The enemy arc the "Commies." Traitorous elements within Alpha Complex, such as mutants and secret societies, assist the Com¬mies. These dangerous elements must be rooted out and destroyed. Enemies are everywhere! Stay alert! Trust no one! Keep your laser handy!
Security Clearance
Every citizen of Alpha Complex has a securi¬ty clearance. Your clearance is Red. Security clearances correspond to the electromagnetic spectrum: Beneath you in status are the un¬washed masses, the laborers and drones of security clearance Infrared; above you in status are Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo, Violet and Ultraviolet. Ultraviolet is the highest status.
 
It is whispered that there are clearances above Ultraviolet, but rumors are treason.
The Computer determines each citizen's clearance with complete impartiality. Higher clearance means greater responsibility; it also brings benefits — larger quarters, more privacy, a greater choice in food. The needs of all citizens are cared for, but those who sacrifice the most for the sake of society and their fellow beings are rewarded most greatly.
Citizens of higher clearance are more knowledgeable and more capable than you, and have advanced because they have selfless¬ly served the greater good. You should defer to higher-clearance citizens at all times.
Failure to do so is treason.
Citizens are expected to wear clothing of the same color as their security clearance. Infrared citizens wear black. It is said that Ultraviolet citizens (also known as High Programmers) wear white, but you have never seen anyone wearing white. Indeed, you have never seen a white wall or a white piece of equipment because of the security laws. You must wear red at all times.
Failure to do so is treason.
In order to make sure that only citizens of the requisite competence, judgment and reliability have access to restricted areas, Alpha Complex is divided into colored areas. 
Citizens may only enter areas of their clearance or lower. You must stay within black (Infrared) and Red areas at all times.
Failure to do so is treason.
The Computer is your friend.
Service Groups
All citizens belong to one of eight service groups. Each service grout) serves an impor¬tant role in Alpha Complex's bureaucracy. Each has its own particular responsibilities. Each constantly struggles with the others for funding, equipment, and personnel. Some¬times the struggle becomes violent. Characters may obtain special equipment, information or personal influence through their service groups.
Internal Security (IntSec) is responsible for weeding out traitors and Commies and main¬taining order. It combines the functions of law officers, secret police, and monitors of political orthodoxy. IntSec is cordially hated and feared by citizens in all other services. Its agents are everywhere.
Technical Services (lech) maintains robots, vehicles, communications hardware, industrial and production systems, and various electronic and mechanical service systems. In practice Tech Services' and Power Services' respon¬sibilities overlap. Vicious bureaucratic rivalry and infighting develops over which group is best suited to serve The Computer in disputed jurisdictions.
Housing Preservation and Development and Mind Control (HPD & MC) is responsible for primary human services — housekeeping, creche management, education, entertain¬ment. recreation, and retirement management. This is the largest, the least prestigious, and the least politically reliable service group. But as dispensers of propaganda, HPD & MC can sway the emotions of the masses, making it in some ways the most powerful.
The Armed Forces (Army) protect Alpha Com¬plex against external invasion by Commie mu¬tant traitors. They also supplement Internal .Security against internal threats. Tough, well- trained, well-equipped members of elite units like the vaunted Vulture Squadrons frequent¬ly serve as bodyguards and handle high- priority missions within Alpha Complex.
Production, Logistics and Commissary (PI C)
is responsible for agricultural and industrial production and allocation of resources. It prepares food and stores and distributes all consumer goods. PLC is only marginally more prestigious than HPD & MC.
Power Services (Power) maintains the power plants and the primary habitat engineering systems of Alpha Complex — traffic, air, water, and waste. Disputes with Technical Services fuel a bitter rivalry between the two groups. Research and Design (R&D) develops new technology and equipment for use by The Computer and citizens of Alpha Complex. R&D's bold advances are better known for their imaginative conception than their reliability. The Computer is unrestrained in its enthusiastic support for R&D's visionary projects.
Central Processing Unit (CPU) is the central Supervisory and administrative authority of Alpha Complex. An entrenched bureaucracy handles records, regulations, human resource engineering, utopian engineering, justice, and executive operations. Certain CPU agents assigned directly by The Computer to projects of special interest enjoy unparalleled autonomy arid discretionary powers.
 

Troubleshooters
All player character» belong to the Trouble-shooters, an elite service unit composed of citizens from all service groups. Trouble¬shooters go wherever The Computer orders, solving whatever problems The Computer wants solved. Being a Troubleshooter is the most dangerous job available to any citizen, but it is also one of the few ways a citizen may rapidly rise to higher status.
If you are lucky and serve The Computer well, you may dream of one day joining the ranks of the High Programmers. But you must beware; the Troubleshooter's job is perilous, and there are traitors everywhere.
Mutant Powers
Your character has a mutant power. This can be a great advantage. This can also be a great danger, since having a mutant power is treason. However, your power may help you stay alive as you try to advance in service to The Computer.
Some citizens are registered mutants. A registered mutant is a citizen who learns that, through no fault of his own, lie is possessed of a treasonous mutant power, and selflessly confesses his flaw to The Computer. In its wisdom and benevolence, The Computer forgives those who make full confession, and permits such mutants to live. However, The Computer requires registered mutants to wear uniforms with yellow stripes at all times. (Yellow clearance mutants wear a black- bordered yellow stripe.) Registered mutants are not subject to summary- execution w-hen they use their powers.
Certain powers are considered so dangerous to The Computer that revealing them results in immediate execution. A character would not reveal such a power to The Computer unless he had a death wish.
Registered mutants arc self-acknowledged traitors, but their existence is tolerated by- The Computer. Dedicated registered mutants may eventually overcome the stigma of their treason.
Excessive knowledge of the use, functions, and limitations of mutant powei^ is treasonous. Mutant jiowers are described in considerable detail on pages 68 through 7.1 Those pages are classified Ultraviolet. For a player to read those pages would be treason. Not that we can stop you.
The Mutant Power Table is printed on Fold- Out A. It is classified Red.^You may read it. It lists the names of the most common mutant powers. Powers which are so treasonous that revealing them to The Computer causes im¬mediate termination are marked with an asterisk (*).
Secret Societies
You belong to a secret society. This can be very exciting. This can also be very' dangerous, because being a member of a secret society is treason. However, your secret society may help you advance and provide equipment otherwise unobtainable at your security' clearance.
Other citizens may- be members of other secret societies. Some of these other secret societies may be bitter enemies of your own. You may have many secret enemies.
Naturally, the doctrines, organization and beliefs of secret societies is restricted informa¬tion. Excessive knowledge of a secret society implies membership in it, and is punishable by summary execution. You can gain such know-ledge by reading the Ultraviolet material on pages 42 through 51. Of course, doirig so is treason. /
The Secret Society Table is printed on Fold- Out A. It is classified Red, and lists the most common secret societies.
Traitors
Mutants and members of secret societies are traitors. All good citizens should report traitors to The Computer. You are a mutant and a member of a secret society. Good citizens would be quite eager to report you to The Computer. Thanks to The Computer, you will often be surrounded by good citizens. 

## 2. Основные концепции

In a roleplaying game the players play the roles of important characters in a story. The gamemaster provides the setting and plot, while the characters played by the players are free to choose their own actions as they solve the problems thrown across their path by the gamemaster.
The players are dependent on the gamernasler for all knowledge about the set¬ting and circumstances of the game adventure. Normally the gamemaster will introduce a game session with the details of the mission and any necessary background information.
Then the adventure begins. The gamemaster describes the settings and non-player characters encountered by the player characters. When a player wishes his character to perform an action, he describes the action to the gamemaster.
The gamemaster determines the chance of success for the player character's action, tak¬ing into account the player character's skills, abilities, the difficulty of the action, and any other relevant circumstances. The gamemaster (or the player, at the gamemasteTs option) may then make a die roll to assist in determining the player character’s degree of success or failure in this action.
This is the basic flow of the game: the gamemaster describing the setting, players choosing and describing their intended ac¬tions to the gamemaster, and the gamemaster judging the success of the actions using the game rules and common sense.
Tl»e drama of the game comes in the presen- tation by the gamemaster and in the role- playing of the players. Л goud gamemaster tries to make the setting as vivid as possible; he portrays the non-player characters with description and colorful dialogue. He places ihe characters in dramatic and challenging situations where they must use wit and skill to save themselves from death or betrayal.
A good player tries to enter imaginatively into his character, to keep his action consis¬tent with his personality and abilities. I le pays close attention to the gamemaster's descrip¬tions and dialogue and uses every available resource to safeguard his character and enable him to advance to higher status in the service of The Computer.
Example of Play
To give you an idea of what Paranoia is all about, here's what you might hear if you were sitting in a room where a game was being played.
Background: Dan is the gamemaster (CM) seated at the head of the table. Eric, Greg, Ken and Lori are playing the roles of four brand- 
new agents of The Computer who have just received their first assignment — to visit the mysterious Outdoors to find out what happened to another group of agents who have disappeared. Eric, Greg, Ken and Lori have of course seen trees and wildlife, but the characters they are playing have lived underground all their lives and have just emerged from a heavily-guarded security door into the light of day.
Dan (CM) (consulting his notes and laying a map before the players): Well, this is a rough sketch of what you see as you emerge from the security door. A narrow path leads away from the door. Everything around you is unimaginably bizarre — green stuff everywhere, none of it with any apparent function; tall brown poles with more green stuff on top...
Ken: Urn. Trees, I suppose.
Dan: Now, now, we Troubleshooters have never seen trees before, have we?
Ken: Oh, right. I get it.
Dan: And another thing. No ceiling. Repeat. No ceiling.
Eric: Gahhhhhh! No ceiling?!
Dan: Right. Now what do our intrepid agents do?
 
Eric: I scream, clutch the door jamb, and try to squeeze back inside.
Greg: I take notes. (Greg's agent is a secret spy for Internal Security-, and the notes are be¬ing taken,on the scandalous behavior of the new agents.)
Lori: I join Eric's character scrabbling at the door.
Ken: I pull my laser and try to look compe¬tent. (Ken's character's secret society- mis¬sion is to assassinate Greg. Ken's secret society-, Death Leopard, has discovered the secret identity- of the Internal Security agent, and is looking for an opportunity- to scrag him.)
i Dan: Very goud. Eric and Lori, there are four tough Internal Security officers with wicked-looking projectile weapons hlock: ing your return through the door. Ken, arc you pointing that laser at anyone or anything in particular?
Ken: Nope, just in case something comes out of the trees... er, out of the green stuff.
Dan: Okay. Eric? Lori? About the guards with heavy ordnance?
Lori: I sober up real quick...
Eric: Me too.

----

Lori: ...rind I back away from (he door.
Dan: Good. The door closes abruptly with a hiss and a click.
Greg: Стоп, agents. We have a service to per¬form tor The Computer and >011 are disgracing yourselves.
Lori: I salute and begin crawling down the path.
Eric: Crawling?
Lori: Of course! I feel better close to the floor. (Peeringat her hands.) Gee. it's dirty'. Don’t the scrubots ever come out here?
Greg: Disgraceful.
Ken: Eric, when your character dies, can I have his binoculars?
Dan: How interesting that you should men¬tion binoculars. Because something seems to be approaching very' quickly from high above the brown-and-green stuff. It vague¬ly resembles a transbot. but it is much faster. And flying.
Eric: Flying?
Dan: Yes.
Lori: I've got a bad feeling about this.
Dan: Worse yet, a tiny brown creature with a long hairy tail is watching you from the brown and-green stuff.
Eric: Eeek! An alien.
Dan: A very likely hypothesis. It is holding a tiny oval brown object which could be a communicator.
Ken: I burn it immediately with my laser, which, I proudly note, is ready for im¬mediate use, as stated so cleverly earlier.
...and an innocent squirrel is speedily dis¬patched by- our hero. As for the fate of the agents, you are left to speculate.	\
 

Glossary
Novices may not be familiar with some terms used in the game. Some of these are: Character: A character is an imaginary' per¬son living in the world of the game.
Player Character (PC): A player character is one whose actions are controlled by a player. Non-Player Character (NPC): A non-player character is one whose actions are controlled by' the gamemaster. These are the antagonists, patrons, and innocent bystanders encountered by' the player characters during the game. Gamemaster (GM): The gamemaster develops adventures for his players, takes the roles of non-player characters, and referees and inter¬prets the rules of the game.
Character Sheet: At the beginning of play, each player is issued a character sheet. On this sheet he records the essential information about his character — background, skills, equipment, and so on. A blank character sheet is provided in Fold-Out C.
Adventure: An adventure is a sequence of episodes experienced by the player characters as they struggle to complete a mission for The Computer. An adventure may be completed in a single session or in a series of sessions. Until it has been brought to a satisfactory (or unfortunate) conclusion, the adventure is not over.
Session: A session is a gathering of game master and players for an adventure. The ses¬sion varies in length, depending on the tastes of the players, but is usually from two to six hours in duration.
Campaign: A campaign is a series of related adventures in a consistent setting with the same player characters. Over the course of a campaign, characters may advance in skills, status and power.
 
A Note to Experienced Players
Three things make Paranoia different from other roleplaying games:
1.	The Tone: Paranoia is designed for the humorous and farcical side of dramatic action- adventure. Other games are more serious and melodramatic, often to the point where the fun is neglected. Translation: Paranoia is fun. Other games are not fun. Play Paranoia.
2.	The Dramatic Conflicts: In most roleplay-ing games, the player characters must cooperate to overcome obstacles posed by the gamemaster. Paranoia encourages backstabb- ing, betrayal and mistrust among the players — in a word, paranoia. Translation: Stay alert! Trust no one! Keep your laser handy!
3.	Player Character Mortality: Anxiety about player character death is often a major block to fun in roleplaying games. The trauma of los¬ing an alter ego, the destruction of a work of art (the personality of the character), represent¬ing an investment of time, imagination, and spirit, and the inconvenience of having to roll up a new character and build a personality from scratch — these are good reasons for be¬ing anxious about player character death.
In Paranoia you get six identical copies of each character you create. When one is killed, his clone steps in almost immediately. Further, Paranoia's absurdist setting em¬phasizes that Paranoia is just a fun game — a chance to be playful as well as adventurous and heroic. Player characters should die like flies in Paranoia. Being a Troubleshooter is very- exciting. Many Troubleshooters die of over-excitement.

s. Until it has been brought to a satisfactory (or unfortunate) conclusion, the adventure is not over.
Session: A session is a gathering of game master and players for an adventure. The ses¬sion varies in length, depending on the tastes of the players, but is usually from two to six hours in duration.
Campaign: A campaign is a series of related adventures in a consistent setting with the same player characters. Over the course of a campaign, characters may advance in skills, status and power.
 
A Note to Experienced Players
Three things make Paranoia different from other roleplaying games:
1.	The Tone: Paranoia is designed for the humorous and farcical side of dramatic action- adventure. Other games are more serious and melodramatic, often to the point where the fun is neglected. Translation: Paranoia is fun. Other games are not fun. Play Paranoia.
2.	The Dramatic Conflicts: In most roleplay-ing games, the player characters must cooperate to overcome obstacles posed by the gamemaster. Paranoia encourages backstabb- ing, betrayal and mistrust among the players — in a word, paranoia. Translation: Stay alert! Trust no one! Keep your laser handy!
3.	Player Character Mortality: Anxiety about player character death is often a major block to fun in roleplaying games. The trauma of los¬ing an alter ego, the destruction of a work of art (the personality of the character), represent¬ing an investment of time, imagination, and spirit, and the inconvenience of having to roll up a new character and build a personality from scratch — these are good reasons for be¬ing anxious about player character death.
In Paranoia you get six identical copies of each character you create. When one is killed, his clone steps in almost immediately. Further, Paranoia's absurdist setting em¬phasizes that Paranoia is just a fun game — a chance to be playful as well as adventurous and heroic. Player characters should die like flies in Paranoia. Being a Troubleshooter is very- exciting. Many Troubleshooters die of over-excitement.
Won't this be different from other adven¬tures? Won't this be fun? The Computer says so. Everybody believes The Computer


## 3. Создание персонажа

11

12

13

## 4. Аттрибуты и навыки

14

15

## 5. Драматический тактический бой

16

## 6. Смерть и другие неприятности

16

## 7. Миссии от Компьютера

17

## 8. Политика, распространение и предательство

18

## 9. Этикет Паранойи

19

## 10. Вступаем в мир Паранойи

20

## 11. Одиночное приключение

21

22

23

24

## 12. Советы изменнику

25
