# Нуарные приключения

## Adventure Hook I – Hired By An Idiot

Romuald Skavenforth is the third son of Sir Leoburn Skavenforth, a heroic knight and now wealthy landowner. Sir Leoburn is a fair and popular overlord and he administers his lands justly and well. He has three sons, the eldest two of which are heroic, handsome, courtly and intelligent. The third is Romuald who is not only the runt of the litter but also somewhat lacking in cranial capacity. His father and elder brothers protect him and are not overly nasty to him but he feels a strong need to prove himself to them. To this end he has developed a plan (the nature of which will depend on the campaign the DM has built) and is assembling a group of heroes to perform daring quests which will reflect well on him and gain him the respect of his father and brothers. Romuald has hired town criers and put up posters to attract followers but unsurprisingly has few volunteers to follow him on his self-imposed quest. In fact the only people who answer his call are the PCs and they’re only here because they’re broke…

## Adventure Hook II – Relocated by Accident

The Half-Orc wizard, Uglug the Fearful, was a clever spellweaver but somewhat lacking in courage. To make sure he could escape if threatened by danger he developed a small amulet which allowed the wearer to teleport to a safe location (the location will depend on the scenarios the DM has built to follow). Upon his death, Uglug’s amulet was misplaced while his will was in probate and ended up in the pack of an itinerant tinker who tried to sell it in a town market. The PCs all examined the amulet in the market but as soon as they held it were teleported to the safe location.

## Adventure Hook III – Captured

Azrik the Barbarian is a slave trader of some renown. His speciality is providing arena-fodder for gladiator schools although he is not averse to dealing in any creature that will turn him a profit. The PCs are slaves of Azrik’s and are heavily guarded day and night until they are sold as a job lot to a Holm Greybeard, a Dwarven gladiator who now owns his own school. Holm believes the PCs to be “decorative” and plans to pit them against his two prime gladiators in the arena as a warm up act (the nature of the gladiators will depend on the scenario the DM has created). Not realising that the PCs have special abilities Holm allows them arms and armour “to make the fight fairer” and throws them into the ring against his two gladiators…who advance menacingly towards them…

## Adventure Hook IV – Rivals in Love

Yegeet Vinderhoff is the daughter of ageing Count Vinderhoff, the obscenely wealthy lord of Kastel Vinder. The Count is reaching the end of his allotted lifespan and wants his only daughter to make a good marriage before he pops his clogs. Yegreet has the charisma and intelligence of a garden slug but is a strong as an ox and able to shout loud enough to shatter glass. Despite these appealing characteristics the hefty dowry promised by the Count means Yegreet has no shortage of suitors. The PCs are representatives of various minor landowners and lordlings who have been sent to assure the Count of their employer’s best intentions and get his permission to woo Yegeet. Each PC represents a different wannabe suitor (the identify of the suitors will depend on the campaign environment the DM has designed). All are received cordially enough and spend a night at Kastel Vinder as guests of the Count. They meet over breakfast in the vast cold hall of the Kastel where a shaken retainer informs them that Yegeet is sitting in her bedroom nursing the Count’s severed head.

## Adventure Hook V –  The Potion Master

The PC are broke but see an advertisement asking for volunteers to test out healing potions. The promised fee is generous and the PCs congregate with several other people in the wooden stockade which is the home of the half-elven druid Willen Fiaxenhair. Willen explains that he has to set up a control for his experiment so divides the volunteers in the stockade into two groups – the PCs and a roughly equally sized group of other volunteers. All volunteers are wounded slightly (this hurts but doesn’t lose any hit points) and all are fed a slightly minty green fluid. Willen explains that one group have been given the healing potion, the other group water which contains herbs to make it look and taste like the potion. A few minutes pass after which the PCs notice that the other group of volunteers are clutching their stomachs and throats and dropping to the floor. When the look around, Willen is nowhere to be seen and the PCs don’t know if they were given the potion or the water control…

## Adventure Hook VI – Ferry Dangerous

The PCs are passengers on a ferry boat which is taking them across a large estuary (what’s on each side of the estuary will depend on the environment the DM has created). About half way across the ferry hits a submerged obstacle and starts to take on water rapidly. Despite throwing a lot of items overboard the crew are unable to stop the ferry from sinking and the passengers find themselves clinging to floating wreckage and being washed out to sea by the strong river current. Fortunately a small group of passengers (the player characters) manage to make it to a sandbank and crawl out of the water while the others are soon swept out of sight, presumably to a watery end. The PCs sandbank is about a mile from the nearest shore and surrounded by a wide and fast-flowing river.

## Adventure Hook VII – Misfired

The remote town of Lygor Brahim has a problem. Every year the great red dragon Smogg flies into town and demands his tribute. Every year the town selects twelve people by lot to stand outside the town and get gobbled by Smogg for the greater good of the town (Lygor Brahim is a big and prosperous town and a dozen people are generally seen as a small price to pay for not being torched like the Red Keep – especially since visitors to the town are also entered into the lottery). This year the Smogg levy contains the PCs, a few stoic townsfolk and a visiting gnome called Mazarin. The twelve are forced outside the town by a large armed mob and don’t have to wait long for Smogg to turn up ready for his annual feast. The mob scurry for safety behind their town walls and Smogg advances towards the twelve sacrificial victims, licking his lips as tendrils of smoke rise from each nostril. The dragon is no more than fifty feet away and the PCs can feel his hot breath when Mazarin steps forward and lets Smogg have it with a hail of lightning. The dragon is dead before the charred remains of his carcass hit the ground. Mazarin winks at the PCs and turns back to the town, casually blasting the gates off their hinges as he approaches. It is up to the PCs to decide how they want to react.

## Adventure Hook VIII – The Good, the Bad and the Undecided

The King’s Justice is a troop of travelling judges who travel the land hearing cases which are too large or important to be resolved by the local sheriff. When the justice enters a town those accused of the worst crimes are brought before them. Twenty people are selected by the justice to act as jury and the trials are heard. The judges play no part in the trial apart from sentencing unless the jury is divided in which case they also determine the guilt of the accused. The PCs are visiting a small town (the exact location will depend on the campaign the DM has put together) when the justice shows up and a bedraggled skinny man with lank hair is dragged before them accused of fratricide. By chance, the PCs are elected as part of the jury. As the trial progresses it becomes obvious there is no real evidence against the man but the majority of the jury seems intent on conviction. That night the PCs have to decide what to do about an innocent man who will be executed at sunrise.

## Adventure Hook IX – Gone Girl

Kya Drull is the eldest daughter of wealthy leather merchant Asix Drull, who is kidnapped by a person or persons unknown. Her distraught father offers a hefty reward for her recovery and the PCs are the first people to step forward to claim it. Asix Drull receives them cordially in the hall of his mansion where retainers offer food and wine. Asix then apologises and dozens of armed retainers enter the hall from all directions. There are far too many for the PCs to fight and they have no choice but to surrender their possessions. Asix and his retainers stream out of the hall doors leaving the PCs standing in their (thankfully clean) under-garments. A few minutes later the real Asix Drull enters the hall and asks who the heck is standing half-naked by his dining table…    

## Adventure Hook X – Party

The PCs are guests at a large garden party held by Elgor Crumbb, a probably slightly less than honest merchant that they have worked for before, although never together. It’s a large and lavish event and several guests are already lying unconscious in the shrubbery when a man clad in dark leather rushes through the throng of merrymakers, pushing people aside and spilling drinks. He is chased by a gaggle of servants but is getting away as the servants are more careful about bulldozering the guests. As he rushes out of the garden he throws a handful of small glittering objects over his shoulder which are caught or picked up by the PCs. When examined the objects interlock to form a medallion with a strange carving…

## Adventure Hook XI – Fair Enough

The PCs are attending the annual fair in the town of Ebonaire. The small town is packed with traders of all kinds, the inns are full and there is a small forest of tents outside the town. Flags fly on every pole and brightly coloured bunting is strung across the narrow streets. Down a narrow alley is the tent of the Madam Gizelle a Half-Elven fortune teller. The PCs happen to congregate outside the tent at the same time. Madam Gizelle comes out of the tent, looks over the PCs, shakes her head sadly, points to the PCs one at a time and tells them they’ll be dead by the next sunrise. She then walks back into the tent. The PCs follow her to find the tent empty…

## Adventure Hook XII – The Anti-Midas

The PCs have a mutual acquaintance in Lady Egla Groothaben, a widow of some means. The PCs may have heard each other’s names mentioned in passing but have never met before the day that Lady Egla invites them to her small manor. The once-formidable old lady seems very quiet and withdrawn but greets the PCs warmly as they arrive and offers lavish refreshments served by the same footmen and maids that the PCs see every time they visit. When everyone has assembled in the comfortable solar, Lady Egla states that she has a wasting disease which will her physician tells her will kill her within the next three months. Her will includes generous bequests to her retainers but still has a considerable fortune to disperse (the exact size will depend on the DM’s view on the economy). She tells the PCs she has much to atone for in her life and believes the PCs are the most honourable of her acquaintances – far more honourable than she is. She wants them to act as trustees and find a worthy recipient for 90% of her fortune. The other 10% is for the PCs to use in their quest for the deserving person.

## Adventure Hook XIII – Going Bump in the Night

The PCs are visiting the town of Zydras and are returning to their respective lodgings late one night when each of them hears a strange scream. Zydras is usually a quiet town and the unlit cobbled streets are deserted as the PCs converge on the noise. They find themselves entering the town graveyard from different directions, in the centre of which a large sepulchral monument is bathed in a soft blue light. The monument is in the form of an engraved obelisk but the PCs can not read the inscriptions from their current positions. Approaching with caution the PCs see three ghostly forms apparently moving in and out of the monument. As the first PC arrives within fifteen feet or so of the monument the light vanishes leaving three recently dead bodies lying at the foot of the monument. A whistle sounds and the town watch arrive with lanterns. The DM will take it from here…

# 100 Side Quest Hooks

d100	Entry
1	A farmer approaches the party and needs help. One of his chickens turns a strange neon green when placed in moonlight, and he needs help figuring out why.
2	Your party finds a list of 10 names including someone they are close to. The first 4 names are crossed out.
3	A courier catches up to the party. They have been left a run down mansion in the will of someone they have never met. The only condition? It be lived in for 5 days. It is of course… Haunted!
4	A well known constellation disappears from sight. The village is divided between people who remember it, and those who don’t. The debates begin to spark an escalating series of feuds and fights.
5	A large river begins to inexplicably stop for 1 hour before sunset.
6	You enter a clearing where 2 duelists lash out at one another. The clearing is in a time loop, repeating the duel over and over again.
7	Rumor reaches your ears of a traveling merchant peddling sets of cursed sewing needles.
8	Old Jeb the farmer claims his sheepdog had puppies, but they all have split tails and he doesn’t know their sire.
9	The sawmill catches fire. The bucket brigade keeps it contained, but it refuses to extinguish after 2 days.
10	For exactly 1 round a day, everyone in town falls sway under the HOLD PERSON spell. Life continues, but everyone is on edge. “Protection” totems begin surfacing in every market shop.
11	Strange, mud-coated animate skeletons have risen in a nearby swamp. They won’t attack unless attacked first and try to speak with anyone nearby, but the coating of mud makes their speech indecipherable.
12	Snowberry bushes only bloom before a blizzard. Collect five snowberry blooms for an alchemist before the storm hits.
13	A suit of enchanted armor with dozens of arms has been razing nearby villages. Watch out, each arm holds a hand crossbow, and each one can attack every turn.
14	A goblin comes running towards you and yells “he’s coming!” and dies.
15	A small pack of wererats have taken up residence in the city sewers, and keep causing trouble for the locals.
16	A farmer says he’s heard strange singing in the night in his corn field, but whenever he goes out to look, he doesn’t find anyone. If that wasn’t strange enough, one morning he found his scarecrows had been moved into a circle.
17	The party is told of a local merchant who specializes in Magical items. The merchant’s name is Foezek and is described as an intelligent, compassionate Shedu. But, when the PCs seek out the shop, they find another being claiming to be Foezek and is more interested in them leaving the shop than dealing with them. In truth, this bandit killed Foezek and is dealing his magical items to an adversary of the DM’s choosing. Foezek’s body can be found in the shop (basement, or behind the counter, etc.).
18	The party is walking through a town when they meet an blind old man who is crawling on the ground looking for his ring. A guard watched him drop it and took it for himself.
19	The party finds a dagger on the body of an enemy that is much heavier than a dagger should be.
20	The party wakes up mixed up in each other’s bodies after night of drinking at an inn.
21	A small chest from the spell Leomund’s Secret Chest falls from the sky. When the party finds a wizard to open the chest is filled with their own equipment, along with a note book keeping track of their actions.
22	The party continues to wake up in the same inn, but different rooms each morning.
23	One of the party members is suddenly extremely allergic to cats, the rest of the party members clothes are suddenly made of cat fur. The change in clothing isn’t immediately noticable.
24	The party is summoned by a king to be his friends for a day.
25	There is a bounty out on the dish breaking bandit.
26	One of the party members suddenly starts to sleepwalk, and breaks dishes in his sleep.
27	An angry gnome tinkers with the sleeping party’s equipment. Everything now has combination locks.
28	Weird noises have been heard at night coming from an older resident’s home in town. When investigated, you discover a worried old man attempting to disguise his worry at your interest in the noise and his business. If convinced that your aid is genuine, or if more discreet measures of observations are taken, you discover his wife is afflicted with lycanthropy despite having no bite marks.
29	The local towns people are complaining about a goblin tribe that has set up camp near by. They are acting strange and have begun constructing statues of a goblin with a pointy hat all over the area.
30	As the party is walking through a road they come across a beggar. He is crippled and asks for some money to help him buy food. As the party continues to walk down the road they find another beggar who looks exactly like the one they just met! When asked he says that he doesn’t have a twin brother or anything of the sort. He doesn’t know what the party is taking about and just wants some coin to buy food. As the party continues to walk they find the same man yet again. He to knows nothing. Upon further investigation they discoverer that the man was once an assistant to a local wizard. And the wizard is an expert in human cloning.
31	The daughter of a local politician/Noble person keeps getting kidnapped by local goblins. The party is hired to solve it once and for all.
32	A horse with no rider, but fully equipped is walking in the opposite direction of the party. There is a note pinned to it’s saddlebags, “send help!”
33	The party takes a shortcut through a friendly looking forest not shown on their map. It seems oddly silent, and soon notice all the wildlife is deep asleep – including insects and even flowers. As their eyes get heavier and heavier a wild man bursts out of the bushes, eyes propped open.
34	Traveling through the forest the party is stopped by the sound of a booming voice nearby “Your Wish has been granted!”. Shortly after they come apon a clearing filled red mist and a goblin holding a brass lamp laughing maniacally. The party now has to deal with what stuipd thing he has wished for.
35	You are confronted by a party of identical adventurers, who seem more surprised than you. They have been tracking you down for a long time, following rumours of a party of adventurers giving them a bad name. Worst of all they seem to have been adventuring longer than you…
36	Construction of a new museum has been halted when its found that all the workers continue to forget what they’re building, could the new exhibit be to blame?
37	You’ve gotten word about a logging village up north that has put up a massive reward for any adventurers willing to travel to the village, investigate the rash of disappearances and locate any of the missing persons: dead or alive.
38	A cranky old man in town complains that his pocket watchers stolen, and he has his suspicions on who the thief is. The townsfolk say that he’s a senile old man who probably lost it.
39	As your party steps through town, you suddenly start to feel the ground shake as a group of Monsterous Centipede’s erupt from the dirt, attacking the party. As they are defeated, it becomes apparent that they were summoned creatures.
40	One of the party’s magical or valued items has been stolen and is now held in a high security bank in a bustling city. The party must now break into the bank to retrieve their items.
41	A farmer asks for help. His crops are constantly getting trashed. He wants the group/player to keep watch over the night. It ends up being that the poor farmers’ trusty scarecrow has been brought to life by dark magic. It is optional to buy or make a new scarecrow.
42	A PC gets bit by a werewolf. There is a cure for it, however they must convince the mad wizard to give it to you.
43	A passing man swears to you that he is a genie who will most definitely grant you three wishes if you return his stolen lamp to him.
44	Every town or settlement the party goes to has an outline of a fish stenciled on a main building. The first one is really big and noticeable; the rest are subtle enough that the party won’t see them unless they announce that they’re examining the place. The town where the quest will happen has the WORD “fish” stenciled on a building.
45	You come across a trail of blood (unicorn) leading to a spooky forest.
46	The party is followed by an owl, hooting softly, eyes glowing the gentle yellow that might be magic or might be simple reflection. Over the next several days more owls join, until when the group sets down to sleep at night all they can see are hundreds of owl eyes staring down at them. Then, one of the owls scratches a message into the dirt, before flying off into the night- FOLLOW.
47	An unknown NPC mage has dimension doored into the middle of a fight, after all healing spells have been used by the team. He/She is on death’s door and carrying a note with his/hers killers name. He says a few words before dying.
48	Graffiti is scrawled on the walls of two buildings in town. It appears to be some sort of code. The messages are marked “1” and “3”. Message “2” is nowhere to be found.
49	A scrap of paper floats on the wind. It glides on the breeze. Eventually in a gust the paper catches on one of the adventures faces. Tearing it off their face, and looking at the parchment they see it is…
50	Gold! Adventure! Fame! Cries an elf on a soap box, “the faint of heart need not apply!” (For adventures who need more than obvious plot hooks.)
51	Looking off to the distance, they can see a flashing light (similar to a signal mirror). Someone is trying to signal far off. Whether it is aide, is indiscernible to the group as the light stops almost as soon as it starts. There is only one way to find out…
52	While passing by a pond, you hear a deep bellowing noise, only to see a fisherman trapped by a giant frog. He calls for help.
53	A paladin with the insignia of a lion’s head on her shield asks you to solve the local pest problem. Turns out the “pests” are full sized orcs.
54	A house outside of town is being circled by hundreds of birds. Upon approaching, the party sees that their beaks are lined with teeth, and the birds are twitching as though trying to escape possession. From the sounds inside, someone is clambering to hide within the building.
55	Kobolds have been attacking the town. All wearing similar regalia and a matching symbol. a raving man claims to have escaped from the kobolds’ lair. He describes a terrible dragon as the source of worship for the kobolds. The dragon is really a pseudodragon with delusions of grandeur, trained in illusion magic and has duped the kobolds into gathering a hoard for him.
56	In a large city, urchins are a regular problem. This trio of kidlets, however, has been luring travelers in to abandoned alleyways, where the deranged doppelganger among them eats the human and the other two children keep what was it his/her pockets.
57	A dryad clad in wooden armor leans against a tree his side torn wide open. He hands the party a pouch full of tiny leaves. Taking a pinch and blowing them into the air will lead the party to an ancient temple entrance almost over grown with vines. When close the pouch of leaves crumbles to dust along with the vines covering then entrance of the temple.
58	You find a small silver coin in the middle of a street and upon picking it up, in your mind you see a small hut deep in the forest. When you come back to reality, only you can see it but a small fae pixie glowing bright blue will show you the way.
59	The party encounters a man running out from the wood-line, coming towards then. He appears to be in shock over what he has seen, and tells the party that he was attacked while hunting. The man directs the party to the spot were he encounter the creature.
60	A local temple has reported strange events in the surrounding area: beasts attacking villagers, bandit lords more closer to the village, and mysterious lights and sounds that can only be observed from within the village.
61	A bounty hunter asks the party if they known any of the names on a list of his. The list contains about 20 names, roll a d20 for the characters knowing any of the names, 1-10 unknown and 11-20 known. The names on the list can be from characters backstory or names of NPCs the party has met throughout the campaign. The bounty hunter will known what each person on the list as done, and how much the reward is for the capture.
62	A seemingly exorbitant amount of gold is offered on the message board to get rid of a ‘house spider’. It turns out that it’s about a spider-like mimic in the shape of a house.
63	The moon stops traveling across the sky, and everyone’s time pieces stop working. Word around the continent is a group of warlocks are attempting to gain power from a new patron – the god of Time
64	More than three people in a given town have all their teeth fall out at the same time
65	A nearby civil war is raging, and one of the high ranking officers of one side or the other holes up in a cave. If approached, they will act incredibly defensive. A child is crying somewhere deeper in the cave, and this person refuses to answer any questions about said child.
66	An allegedly crooked officer of the law is found dead in an alley way and only one person in the whole town seems to care about it at all.
67	The party is on a faire where a magician is performing tricks with a severed head that can talk. Throughout the show the head blinks in weird patterns. The party talks to the head to find out he is kidnapped and begs for help in finding his body back.
68	The party comes across an Inn in the middle of nowhere and they decide to stay. They wake up on the ground where the inn used to be and there’s no sign of any building ever being there.
69	Walking through town, the party suddenly gets surrounded by the city guard. A respected captain was murdered. Witnesses say they saw someone looking similar to one of the party members. Upon looking through their things, said member appears to have lost an item easily traced back to him (one half of a pair of gloves/earrings/daggers, family insignia, one of a kind necklace etc.). Sure enough, said item was found at the scene of the crime. Someone is framing them. Not necessarily a doppelganger.
70	The party stumbles across a dead old man. Amongst his meagre belongings is a thick tome with extensive records about everything they’ve done right up till today, with even more detail than they themselves knew.
71	The party finds various dead animals with missing pieces, almost torn and shred. As they approach the heart of the forest the number of dead creatures increases. Upon investigation they find out it’s the guardian spirit of the forest who has been corrupted and it’s confused.
72	A flyer appears in the sacks of each party member. A mid level demon has opened a store and invites all those with ambitions to visit to make deals.
73	A rumor reaches the party’s ears of a group of brigands hiding out in the woods. They have a code that is the reverse of Robin Hood and his Merry Men: Steal from the poor, and give to the rich. None of the local nobles seem interested in the pillaged goods of their subjects, and are constantly giving back the loot they keep finding on their doorsteps.
74	The local apothecary is desperate due to the sudden absence of all the local medicinal plants in the area. All the groves and clearings appear to have been picked clean, and even the owner’s secret garden is now empty. She had told no one of her hidden garden, and so has no idea who or what could have taken all of the plants in the brief period of time between her most recent check and her previous one.
75	A human peasant and a member of the fey came across each other in the woods and, over the course of multiple moonlit encounters, fell deeply in love. The peasant’s family has a deep-rooted fear of the fey, and is actively trying to put a stop to the pair’s relationship. The family is even more fearful that the peasant will leave for the Feywild and never return, and goes to the party to convince them to help break the two lovers up. The human is in love with the Fey’s otherworldly allure and sharp wit; talking to them makes the peasant feel alive in a way that they’ve never felt before. The Fey was originally only interested in the concept of a secretive human lover, but eventually came to love the peasant’s dedication to their relationship despite the risk of alienating other loved ones.
76	While at the market waiting for another adventurer to arrive, you pass the time by idly counting the number of stone gargoyles mounted on the town hall. There are fourteen, all with a silly grin.
77	While at the blacksmith to repair your armour, you overhear the blacksmith explaining to his apprentice to not stray off to the hills to see his new sweetheart because he heard from the baker’s cousin’s stepmother that there are kobolds about.
78	While waiting patiently for your turn to see the Bishop, you get your ear bent by some local shopkeeper about how the town council is a bunch of idiots, and how they simply wasted all that money on getting 13 gargoyle statues erected on the town hall. Thirteen! That’s an unlucky number!
79	A street urchin attempts to filch your purse, he runs off down an alley. The urchin escapes, but in the alley you found a homeless halfling bum. Clearly dead. Looks like he fell from a great height.
80	The price of that foreign wine you like so much has tripled in price. The barkeep mutters something about pirates. The barkeep explains it’s just a euphemism for the wagoneers guild and their extortionate ways.
81	A dead homeless halfling found in an alley had a small bottle of very cheap whisky. The label has a brand mark you’ve not seen before – 4 vertical slashes and 2 short slashes across the bottom.
82	The pommel of a sword you found on your last adventure rattled loose. Inside you a scrap of parchment with lots of scratchmarks, almost looks like writing.
83	A wanted poster has been nailed up – Wanted: Black Pete, for Brigandry.
84	The scribe you made inquiries with last week has got back to you. She says the Tomb of Three Chieftains can be found outside Millthorp.
85	While at market, you saw three wagons being carefully guarded by scruffy and shifty looking mercenaries. There are barrels of cheap rotgut in the wagon.
86	A pilgrim accosts you in the street. He asks if you’ll be travelling east anytime soon.
87	The bakery has no cake. He explains it’s because there’s a shortage of milk.
88	A patrol of the Kings Guard rode fast down main street. They almost ran you over.
89	There’s a parade of pilgrims on main street, heading for the commons. They appear somber and morose.
90	Southbridge, just outside town, has been closed to traffic due to disrepair. Merchants complain about the 2 hour detour they now incur by first heading east.
91	The town guard are seen practicing new drills on the common. Apparently a local bandit has enlisted a wizard, and so training in avoiding fireballs is called for.
92	The local priesthood is paying gold for water collected from the Opal Caves to treat a spreading fever
93	An apothecary will pay for certain herbs growing in the Frog Marches.
94	The local Stonecutters Guild are not petitioning for work contracts; labourers are grumbling.
95	A frost giant approaches the group. The giant politely asks for help. He lost his pet owlbear and needs help finding it. He promises a very handsome amount of gp as well as “a powerful ally” if you find the creature.
96	A goblin in noble clothes crashes through the window and rolls over the ground. The symbol of the king’s guard is embroidered on his half-cape. As he gets up, he panics and looks around, fixing his eyes upon the party. “The Goat-Riders are coming! Please, hide me!”
97	A large burly man has started a daily ritual of throwing a goat at the side of a local noble’s house. He is not damaging the house, so he is not doing anything that will make the local law enforcement arrest him, but the noble wants him dealt with, and will pay you to get rid of him, however.
98	A sword in the stone can be sensed by all creatures in the land with “Detect Magic” but lately it seems that the presence is becoming overbearing. Magic users are worried that unless the true king draws the sword, proving his lineage, or the spell “Detect Magic” will become obsolete.
99	As the group walks through the forest, one member hears very quiet crying. The crying is coming from a lost juvenile harpy. It is the job of the group to protect this harpy. They can either keep and raise the creature, or return it to its mother.
100	The party finds a smouldering crater containing a metal wreck. Inside, they find an eccentric kobold who insists she has returned from the moon.

# 100 Murder Mystery Plot Hooks

d100	Entry
1	The town elder was brutally killed in his home on the full moon. Large claw marks lead to a local tavern.
2	Local blacksmith knows a little too much about the local killings. All the victims were killed by a well-crafted blade.
3	A young maiden husband just died. Funny enough she is about to get married to her new husband next week. That's the third husband that has died on her in two months.
4	One of the party members wakes up to find his weapons are wet with blood. Later that day, someone turns up dead... with markings similar to the PC's weapons.
5	A local official is dead. An ambassador from a rival kingdom/tribe/race/etc. happened to be in town that night, and members of the local military are ready to put him to death without further evidence.
6	A woman is desperately seeking help. Every night, her family is brutally murdered. But they always wake up fine the next morning.
7	An impoverished tween girl with a real force of personality begs you to help you sort out who's stealing her chickens. She's so poor she only has the chicken coop, and she sleeps in there; but there's another chicken missing every day.
8	A tavern maiden appeared dead with what seems signs of an already known beast in the area, further investigation show that the beast died long ago.
9	A local politician hung him/herself, leaving a suicide note. The surviving family insists a mind-control spell was used and that the letter is a forgery.
10	The ne'er-do-well third child of a local noble family was found dead, encased in a ten-foot cube of ice floating down the local river.
11	The local priest went missing. One anonymous tip later, and the body was found in a crypt that hasn't been entered in over 10 years.
12	The king/leader of the region was killed by masked assassins during a speech at a town fair.
13	The party is invited to a mansion in the countryside along with a bunch of NPCs and receive a secret message from the host before they arrive. The host is terminally ill/cursed/bored of this whole 'living' thing and their life insurance doesn't cover natural death/insert other option here, but wants to go out with STYLE, and essentially writes the party into the will/policy/etc. if they stage a murder-mystery. Alternatively, the contractor is a murder mystery novel writer looking for a publicity stunt or something. Feel free to have either go sideways.
14	Last week, a local wizard's apprentice turned him/herself into the local jail after confessing to killing their master in a laboratory accident. Investigators did a cursory inspection and found evidence of the accident, but no body. The supposedly dead wizard turns up alive within the week, claims a miraculous escape to another plane that took a week to return from, but refuses any sort of investigation. The apprentice dies in mysterious circumstances in jail overnight. (Wizard is secretly a lich.)
15	An entire family of hemophiliacs were slaughtered in their house. Some suspect an over-zealous monster hunter who mistook them for vampires, but is the truth darker than that?
16	An elder red dragon takes the entire capital city hostage until someone can solve the mystery of the murder of its mate.
17	The reed of a famously kind elven bard was poisoned, and she died playing in the local tavern the party was staying at. Who would target such a kind elf?
18	Bdeocles, a devilish imp and former familiar of fifty years has been accused of the murder of his/her master. The imp is a wicked tempter and a natural liar, but seemingly very earnest about not murdering the one long-time trustworthy friend the imp had on the prime plane.
19	Your party is attacked by two-dozen high-level mind flayer warriors and hauled off to their deep city. The mind flayers' high priest and the highest-ranked drow diplomat in their city were murdered. A war with the drow will likely break out unless the perpetrator is brought to justice. They also discovered they have all been infected with a memetic suggestion that prevents them from looking at the case objectively. Even the elder brain is affected. The brain came to the conclusion surface dwellers were needed to sort the mess out. Solve the case or have your brains eaten.
20	In a locked basement, in an abandoned house, a skeleton/corpse is found starved to death. In their own words, carved into the walls they wrote who their killer is, but time has worn it away. Finding out would depend on finding the identity of the prisoner and discovering their history in the town.
21	A particularly hairy man is discovered near the woods with a silvered knife in his back.
22	A local villager was recently killed by some kind of creature while out hunting. His body was returned for burial by his fellow hunting party. Yesterday, before the burial ceremony, his body has gone missing.
23	Several patrons and a local lord running for governor died shortly after drinking his favorite spiced wine from a tavern. Funny enough, that spiced wine was a gift to the tavern from a rival lord running for governor, however, he claims innocence. Suddenly, the tavern owner joins the political race, shouting in the square about the brutality of the local lords and how they need to be replaced.
24	A group of children went to a lake that supposedly can supposedly show the true form of whatever enters the lake. While skipping stones, the rocks appear to transform into numerous corpses. What psychopath has been killing villagers and how has no one noticed them missing?
25	Victims in a small town are dying of blood loss overnight. The only problem? There are no wounds to show it.
26	A group of elderly men, who are or were very prominent in the town (councilors, wealthy merchants, guild leaders etc.) start dying, one by one. At first it seems to be accidents, but soon it escalates to blatant murder. One of the numbers had died of natural causes sometime before, and his body was exhumed, mutilated, and his skull left in the house of one of the others. After the third death, two and two was put together and rumors begin to flow - this is exactly the group of men that were accused of the gang rape of a beautiful young teen girl, many years ago. They are now closing ranks again and have been seen visiting each other's houses to confer. At the time, the power of these men led to the girl's family abandoning her and accusing her of lying. She then disappeared, apparently fled to lead a life of her own.
27	The town's woodworker was found murdered in his shop, lying over his workbench, a wood axe in his back. On the workbench are carving tools and shavings of a very expensive type of wood.
28	A man was found on the street, seemingly died from a fall, but there are strange runic markings all over the victim’s body.
29	A man is found dead, drained of blood. However, he holds a large holy symbol in his outstretched hand.
30	An entire batch of home-brewed beverages sold in the market square were poisoned - 20 people are dead. Is it the work of a serial killer, or is the mass poisoning a cover for a specific slaying?
31	A pair of twins are found dead by strangulation on opposite sides of the town; both seem to be killed at the same time. Each was found holding a small glass marble.
32	A man is found slumped in his creaking rocking chair on the porch of his shack, congealed wax trailing from his head and encrusting his clothes. His bloody eyes, mouth and ears are each stuffed with a thick candle, wicks shouldering in the light breeze.
33	The Lord was found murdered in the wine cellar; his body completely drained of blood. There were no marks of violence to his corpse. His son has ascended to his position, and despite the young man's previous know-nothing attitude, he's proven to be oddly adept at managing local affairs. Many have said he takes after his father to an uncanny degree.
34	The party comes to a new town and stays the night at an inn. Everything seems normal, but when they go downstairs the next morning, they find the innkeeper and all the patrons from the previous night have been brutally slain. (Optional: the rest of the town has absolutely no reaction to this.)
35	A special item is going to be shipped in secret to his future owner across the sea. The crew has a heated disagreement at the port tavern for some reason (between them, or with a local or the captain finds his daughter with one of them). The captain spends the night prior to the departure at a private lodging, after some business. In the morning of the departure, the captain is nowhere to be seen on the ship, the already stowed away item is missing, and a boy is screaming bloody murder on a back alley. It's the captain with a bludgeoned head and pierced heart. A chip of a half-orc tooth is found nearby, as well as a delicate earing inside the captain's pocket.
36	You, the party, awake in the morning to find you are dead. You’ve been murdered in your sleep, and now as spirits flirting between the ethereal and material plane you must solve your murder and find some way back into your cold bodies, lest you be really dead, like, forever.
37	You are in an inn and you hear a commotion you run towards it and enter the room the only person in the room is dead and has no pants. Upon further inspection the pants are nowhere to be found.
38	A powerful magic inducer is brought to town (think transformers' allspark). A scholar at the nearby museum dies during the night as if he was being chased by some weird monster (pixies, orc, you choose). A new painting has been delivered the week prior and might shed some answers to the death. The inducer created a night at the museum scenario and some paintings from a specific wizardly artist gained life and roamed during the night. The scholar wasn't particularly amicable but had great knowledge and might have had relevant information for the party.
39	The PCs are asked to investigate a local mining company that is producing over three, sometimes four, times the usual amount of processed ores than expected, with the miners having no memories of working their shifts in the newest, deepest shaft. The smelting workers claim that the ore was never processed by them and show proof that it uses an older, now-banned technique.
40	Your adoptive Mother, who took care of you and your brothers in childhood on orphanage was found dead in the woods with an amulet from one your brothers.
41	A Cranium Rat approaches the party and asks for their help. Someone in town has been killing Cranium Rats to the exclusion of killing other forms of rodent pests and somehow, the psychic connection between the Cranium Rats breaks before death, denying the Hive from knowing their killer.
42	An apprentice to the community's wizard is in jail for killing his master. It seems a Clay Golem they were building tore the head off the wizard and then ran into the woods. The only people who could have given orders to the Golem were the wizard and his apprentice so it’s obvious the apprentice did it, yet he claims he is innocent.
43	Two powerful wizards have been feuding for years, but until today it was always fairly civil: written letters, disputations published in scholarly circles, and the occasional annoying and irritating curse (May your nose hair grow ten feet!). Today one of the wizards was found dead in his/her lab with the other wizard's dagger in his/her back.
44	The Local Lord's poison taster fell grievously ill during a dinner party and everyone panicked. The Chef and all of her staff were arrested on grounds of attempted murder, the Alchemist was seen in the kitchens and so he too was arrested, and the King's cup bearer is under suspicion as well. On top of it all, the neighboring Lord is riding about the border 'hunting bandits' and sending patrols into the local county...
45	A serial killer is loose on town! The fourth body has been discovered and all share a shocking trait: each one is a dwarf, recently come to town to work the nearby mines. Is someone targeting dwarves or is there another link between them? And why now?
46	A prominent businessman in the timber industry goes missing. His body can be found with a tree growing from his chest in the forest.
47	A righteous, or perhaps not so righteous warband/military unit, was completely slaughtered overnight in their fort. There are signs of a massive battle, but all the carnage is within the walls.
48	First it was random children of peasants that had gone missing. When the city watch began investigating, the children of watchmen started disappearing! Can the PCs, who have been selected because they have no family, determine the cause of the child abductions? Without endangering any other children?
49	The entirety of a town gets invited to the noble‘s annual dinner party at his colossal mansion. Shortly after all the guests have arrived the noble has seemed to have disappeared, but his body was found later with a dagger in his back. Then the lower-class guests start disappearing and dying in various different ways. The killings seem to be gradually going up the social ladder.
50	An adventurer asks you to solve their own murder. They and their party were exploring a dungeon, but got separated, then the adventurer was killed instantly, but the body was later found and resurrected. The only people that should have been in the dungeon were their own party.
51	In the evening a bard gives a song in gruesome detail of a brutal murder. The next day a body is discovered that is multiple days old but matches the description of the bard.
52	In the middle of a stunning performance, the band's lead singer and bard were murdered! The culprit was covered by the mist and fog created by the band's crew as special effects, who could have killed them on stage in the middle of all this chaos?!
53	A little boy is found slain inside a locked room; his throat slit. A doll, his favorite, of a small woodcutter is found on the floor next to him. In its tiny hands is a tiny knife.
54	A man is found dead in his home, his body completely drained of blood. All 1.5 gallons of his blood have been neatly stored in glass jars around the corpse.
55	Corpses have been showing up near the town. They all have the odd quirk of the victims seemingly asleep, if it weren't for the total lack of all organs and the corpses randomly being cut into pieces with near surgical precision. Also, the town's medics are all clerics, with nobody having the sort of precision tools or skills to cut super finely through bone.
56	The party receives a letter from a noble, calling them forth to his court. Soon, he reveals that a threat of murder is afoot. A devil walks among them, and the party must route them out.
57	A family moved away from the village further into unsettled territory. It has been almost a month since anyone has heard from them, and it appears that after some madness and violent ends, the surviving family fled to a lighthouse owned by a relative.
58	Tasked to retrieve an item from an old castle and village, the party, contractor, and an extra crew make their way there to loot the location. However, as storm sets in and a crew member is found dead, something foul is afoot.
59	Seemingly out of nowhere, a screaming body comes plummeting towards the ground. It appears to have maybe been aimed at someone...
60	A few days after the party where the local woodworker was drunkenly bragging to a PC about how he has a shipment of rare wood used for detailing and instruments, he was found dead, murdered with his own wood axe.
61	The party arrives at a port city and finds tensions running high. The local nobility, guild masters, working class and underworld are in a four-way standoff over expected payments, quality of products and working conditions: negotiations were already tense and then the first body showed up. So far, the victims have been the children of working-class leaders, but now the daughter of a prominent and universally respected guild master (thought to be the best chance at a peaceful resolution) has vanished. The cities ruling family has been silent on the matter, mercenaries are pouring into the city and maritime trade has dropped sharply...
62	The party wakes up in the crypts of a large town or city, with no recollection of their deaths and each carrying an invitation to a formal event, dated two days ago. Investigating the event's location reveals that it is currently locked up by the city guard to investigate a mass killing, the victims being the party members themselves!
63	Tragedy erupts in the quiet hamlet of Miramide, as the morning patrol finds the body of the woodworker, murdered in the night. All apparent evidence points to the murder being the work of Illid, a golem created for the express purpose of protecting Miramide.
64	A room at the local brothel was found covered in blood with drag marks leading to the nearby river.
65	A series of brutal killings are going on, every month a new victim is found torn to shreds by a wild animal. At first the town suspected Mr. Lazuli as he got bitten by a werewolf last spring and the local priest hasn’t come to remove the curse. Only these killings take place on a New Moon, while Mr. Lazuli transforms on a full moon ...
66	The city has a serial killer on its hands! Maybe? There’s a new death every few weeks, but always killed in a new way, cut, shot, impaled, tortured. The strange thing is the victims look identical, not like anyone the police recognize. But the bodies are all the same man. Dying with a grin on his face ...
67	A lich wants you to solve his own murder. He insists on coming along with you to play “good cop, bad cop”.
68	A mysterious man in red has been killing violent criminals and corrupt officials throughout the city. The mayor was positively gleeful at first, but ever since his cousin’s ties to a crime ring have been made public, he’s been pressing the guards and bounty hunters to find and capture the man in red under the mantra; “Vengeance is not justice!”.
69	The man in red, a vigilante who’s been killing violent criminals and corrupt politicians in the city, has been found dead. The city guard aren’t touching this case because the man in red had powerful enemies, and it looks like one of them had him killed.
70	A person explodes in a gout of fire. Then 2 more nearby. A creature is possessing these victims before they ignite. Then the creature turns on the players! It could be that the victims (or at least one of them) are connected somehow. Are there more victims throughout the city? It's clear that the heroes must find this out before it happens again! Chasing the clues might reveal that the creature was summoned and specifically targeted (at least one of) the victims! What do the players do when they find out that original summoner is attacked? Did the victim(s) deserve it? Is the threat resolved? Does the creature make another attack?
71	Household 'Otto-Servant' warforged automatons have recently become a trend among the well to do. The inventor sends a message to the players asking for help using an unassuming middleman as cutout. It seems the inventor fears for their life. Then the inventor is attacked by one their inventions! Rumors of the devices spread like wildfire, and copycat attacks seem to be happening! Can the players protect the life of the inventor, and prove that the automaton WASNT the source of the attack? Has the inventor died by the clamps of their own creation? Perhaps there is a competing product being used to ruin the inventor’s reputation! Maybe the inventor stole the idea, and the original creator is getting revenge?
72	No Body at all. Victim of a disintegrate spell.
73	A body is found with no visible injuries on the outside, but an autopsy reveals the internal organs have been burned and melted together. (Heat metal on a surgical implant.)
74	A man was seen crying in the middle of the street. When someone tried to pull him out, he screamed and collapsed dead. Autopsy reveals heart attack. (Mental Prison).
75	A large number of people have seemingly contracted a dancing sickness. They keep dancing no matter what. Ones without anyone to feed/water them die of thirst. (9th level mass suggestion, which lasts 'a year and a day')
76	A wealthy brewer was found dead of extreme dehydration. (Blight)
77	A body is found with what appears to be a plant growing out of its mouth. (The victim consumed some seeds and a Druid caused them to rapidly grow inside the victim’s body.)
78	A man mysteriously dropped dead during a heated argument. It appears to be a freak accident but a detect magic spell reveals he was killed with psychic damage. (The other person in the argument killed him with vicious mockery.)
79	A town guard is found dead having been cooked alive, but his armor is fine. Upon close examination the armor is slightly warped from extreme heat. (Heat Metal)
80	Victim has several holes blown through their body; autopsy shows signs of acute blunt force trauma. (Magic Missile)
81	Victim dropped dead for no apparent reason, autopsy showed that all vital organs seized up at once and their heart had completely decayed. (Power word: Kill)
82	Victim found foaming at mouth and showing signs of a Seizure, Autopsy found that their brain had boiled in their own skull (Synaptic Static/Mind Spike)
83	Victim’s lower half found but other half has not been located, cut appears completely clean having gone through their armor with little apparent resistance (A creative use of Gateway/Astral Gate)
84	A house was destroyed and all inside were killed. Strangely, half of the house exploded outward in an incredible fireball, the embers of which are still too hot to approach. While the other half was encased in a sheet of ice so cold that touching it with a body part requires the skin to be pulled off to let go. If you pass a high arcana check you realize that the murder was most likely caused by someone using the demon Maxwell.
85	Body frozen solid, found in an environment not cold enough to freeze it.
86	Body melted into goo. Only identifiable by the clothing, equipment & jewelry, that the victim had on them at the time.
87	Body partially phased through a wall or other solid object.
88	Body transformed into sand. Only identifiable by the clothing, equipment, & jewelry, that the victim had on them at the time.
89	Skeletal remains of someone who was alive just a day ago. Identified by clothing, equipment, and bone injuries that the victim suffered during life.
90	Witnesses say the victim was struck by lightning, while inside a building.
91	Body found in an alley behind a well-known tavern that is frequented by high societal patrons who don’t want to know or seen visiting with specific types of people. (Thieves, murderers for hire, drug dealers. Dealers of other material that is not quite common to keep around.)
92	A body apparently exploded into large chunks, a significant amount of mess on the floor but no blood on the walls. (Flesh to stone, topple the statue, dispel).
93	In the city’s main temple, a well-known noble is found dead in the inner sanctum. It is known there is only one way in or out, and it is by being accompanied by a member of the temple’s high court. Upon investigation, the cause of death appears to hanging (broken neck and rope burn around the neck) but there is no rope to be found and nowhere in the sanctum to be hung from. (Rope Trick).
94	A roughly circular area in the slums of the city contains an emaciated corpse, several dead rats, and a good number of dead insects. (Circle of Death).
95	A body that clearly feel from the sky in the middle of town with no trees or real buildings around.
96	An archeological dig at an ancient tomb has been going on for weeks. But the crew are no fools. They've brought in experts and priests to avoid traps and curses the place has on it, as well as hiring the party to take out any other threats that lurk in the depths. It's good pay for several days of killing bulettes, cloakers, umber hulks, and the occasional mummy that may arise, etc. There are protests by the locals of disturbing a sacred site, vocal but nothing violent. The head archeologists are very secretive however, and seem to be searching for something specific, dismissive of other treasures. Then, one night, the main team is found dead in their study area, lungs filled with sand, clutching at their latest notes.
97	The dock-master has gone missing for several days, and the harbor is in disarray, wondering where he went. That is, until a group of children find his body tied up and beaten to death in their secret cove hideout that they thought only they knew about. The bruises look like they were made by a fist wearing rings on each finger. In the dock-master's inside coat pocket is a letter blackmailing him with instructions to find and come to this cove.
98	A hermit witch is both feared and revered by the locals for her seemingly dark powers but also the magical potions and tonics she sells to the village to fix various mundane problems like hair loss or love interests. Last night, a horrible, blood-curdling scream was heard throughout the entire village, coming from the remote hut. Upon investigation, the witch is nowhere to be found, except with a message scrawled on blood on the floor: 'THE BLASPHEMOUS AND HER FLOCK SHALL BE PUNISHED'. The villagers are begging you to find the culprit and save them from whatever is coming.
99	A collection of incredibly realistic sculptures are found in the courtyard of a local noble's home, delivered with a single letter signed 'W'. Each statue depicts a different member of his family in the exact garbs they were wearing the night before, when they had coincidentally been at a dinner party. They had returned much later than expected...
100	An experienced herbalist is found dead in their ransacked store. There is no sign of struggle.

# 50 Adventure Hooks To Steal For Your Game

A strange-looking, low-hanging cloud sits over the village. What's really odd is that, despite the wind, the cloud never moves.

A local boy has gone missing. His friends had dared him to venture into an old, abandoned cottage in the woods outside town. That was the last they saw of him.

The rotting corpse of a giant is found alongside a well-traveled road. The giant looks like it has been dead for weeks, but travelers at a nearby wayside inn swear that it wasn't there when they ventured through yesterday afternoon.

Two lovers are having in a very loud spat in the street. Suddenly, one of them falls dead, their face contorted in a look of horror. A strange symbol glows on the side of their neck and slowly begins to fade into nothingness.

The animals in the nearby area have been acting strangely. They no longer seem to fear people, and are all suffering an insatiable hunger for meat... even the herbivores.

A shopkeeper, while renovating the cellar of his business, discovers a strange, stone door behind a shelf.

A small town is unsure of what to do. A small child's voice can be heard from a long-dry well, but no children in the town are missing. What's more concerning is that every person who has ventured into the well in an attempt to rescue the child has not come back.

A man in a long black coat and wide-brimmed hat hastily checks out of an inn. As he rushes out the door, a small vial of swirling green liquid falls from his pocket.

A farmer rides into town, white as a sheet. He claims his scarecrows have been moving closer to his home each day. This morning they were outside the windows of his house. Is this the work of local pranksters, or something else?

A tall, handsome man in fine clothes stands in the center of a crossroads. He seems to know each of the PCs names and says he has information that would be very valuable to them if they choose to return to this spot tonight when the moon is at its apex.

The stuffed head of a fantastic beast that adorns a place above the mantle in a popular local tavern suddenly comes to life and screams something in a strange language before bursting into flames.

Locals say a star fell from the sky last night and landed somewhere nearby.

Every mirror in town ceases to show reflections, but rather gives glimpses into a shadowy keep.

The sound of yelling echoes in the night as a band of villagers, armed with torches and pitchforks, gather outside a home, demanding the residents surrender their young daughter.

A cloaked man in a dark corner of the tavern tells the party he has work for them but promptly dies, a dagger in his back and a sealed letter in his hand.

A concerned father approaches the party at a tavern and asks for their help. His daughter is seeing a man and he doesn't approve. He pleads with the party to end the union. The only catch; the man his daughter has been seeing recently died two years ago.

An innkeeper informs the players that a package arrived for them last night. It is a small silver locket with a date engraved on it. The date is one week from today.

The caretaker of a local cemetery is screaming that there are people in the mausoleums scratching at the doors.

Something big has been attacking Farmer Biden's cows. Whatever it is, it's killed five in the last week, but strangely it hasn't eaten them, only drained them of their blood.

Late at night, the sound of far-off drums can be heard in the darkness. War drums, and lots of them.

In a large city, to rival street gangs vie for control over a neighborhood, leaving many innocent bystanders dead. The local thieve' guild sits back and waits to endorse the winner.

A city official approaches the party discreetly, offering them a fair sum of money to kill her husband. She then reveals her husband died two weeks ago but has been lurking the streets ever since.

A new noble from an unknown house arrived in the city last month. Around the same time, several vagrants in the area started to vanish.

Someone has hired assassins to eliminate a single member of the party, but who is behind the plot and for what reason?

A nomadic barbarian tribe is passing uncomfortably close to town and officials, as well as the citizens, are getting very nervous.

A cleric gives the party a list consisting of pieces of monsters from the area that she is looking to acquire for her "work". She offers to pay the party a handsome sum for each piece.

A mysterious island suddenly appears off the shore of a stretch of coast or a lake.

A mysterious island suddenly appears in the sky over a town or city.

A raven flies through an open window and lands on the floor, seemingly dead, with a message attached to its leg. The raven then promptly transforms into a bloodied man.

A new brothel opens up nearby, but strangely they charge their patrons nothing. What's the catch?

A woman storms up to one of the PCs with a member of the town/city watch, points at them, and yells "That's the one! That's the one that killed my husband!"

While laying in bed one night in an inn, one of the PCs hears a small thump under their bed. It seems to be a journal that had somehow been dislodged from its hidden resting place. It details an extensive plot to assassinate a prominent leader in a town three days away. The last date in the journal is two days ago.

The owner of a nearby orchard has been complaining that his trees keep changing positions during the night.

A young boy approaches a PC and hands them a heavy, leatherbound tome with a heavy lock on it and whispers "I'm sorry" before running off in the other direction.

A local baker whose business was failing suddenly manages to turn things around with her new, delicious meat pies. Meanwhile, unattended children have been vanishing at an alarming rate.

An old man in a dusty, rough-spun robe claims to be a gold dragon in disguise and offers to lead the party to a great treasure.

Kobolds have tunneled into the basement of a nearby temple and refuse to leave.

A savage-looking tribe of orcs arrive outside the gates of a small town and offer peace. Is it a trick?

The party receives invitations for a formal ball held at a local noble's estate. The invites were sent by a Mr. Dusk.

A new drug is running rampant through several cities and is slowly making its way into nearby towns. The drug seems to offer the brief ability to perform minor magical spells, but prolonged use leaves the users withered husks.

A prestigious bardic college stands accused of manipulating events to write more interesting stories and songs.

A lovelorn man drinks away his sorrows in a tavern because his bride-to-be was kidnapped by bandits along the road after a picnic, and he is too cowardly to rescue her.

The players find an abandoned village. Tables are still set with as if for dinner, but with moldering food. Clothes and personal possessions are still found in homes. Even a minstrel's lute can be found leaned against a stool upon a small stage in the tavern. In the center of the village is a well with some rough words scratched into it in elvish ("A price must be paid").

A dragon has been collecting a tribute from a small town once a week for over fifty years. Two weeks ago, the demands stopped and no one has heard anything from the dragon.

A local temple employs what is quite possibly the worst cleric ever. It seems that anyone he treats dies. Luckily his church has given him a duty to make up for his perpetual blunders; they've made him an undertaker as well. However, now anyone he treats comes back to life.

Some local children come running into the tavern looking for their parents, breathless and gasping about a cave behind a waterfall not far outside of town, and the large, unseen thing the began growling inside of it.

While arriving in town, the party sees a wanted poster with pictures of their likenesses drawn upon it. It states that they are wanted for murder, extortion, blackmail, thievery, and arson. They are extremely dangerous and there is a significant reward for their capture... dead or alive.

A fire appears in the sky over a town or city. It traces a circle around the perimeter. Then it begins to rain hot pitch.

A long abandoned mine suddenly seems to be alive with the sounds of picks and hammers echoing from within... in the middle of the night.

An emissary from the elven lands arrives in the city, and suddenly high-ranking government officials begin dropping dead, apparently poisoned.

# 120 Urban Hooks

I've built a lot of cities. I find that its best to categorize.

Arts (Theater, dance, art, music)

Nightlife (Drinking, dancing, sex)

Shopping (Basics and Luxury)

Entertainment (Museum, Library, Zoo, Circus, Auction, Sage)

Sports (Team and Solo, and includes Gambling)

Nautical (Fishing, diving, sailing, yachting)

A d6 and a d20 can dice up a full roster of stuff to do quite quickly. Enjoy!

## ARTS (01)
Free outdoor art gallery with paintings, sculpture, food vendors and musicians. A note is passed to the party from a stranger.

A new play from a famous playwright is debuting at the local theater. The party receives an invitation from an anonymous source via a messenger.

A street band is playing raucous tunes outside the party's lodgings and a crowd prevents them from entering. If they persist, they accidentally start a brawl.

A festival is being held in the city and all citizens and visitors are required to attend and pay fealty to the city's ruler. During the parade an explosion destroys some buildings and kills nearly 100 people. The party is very close to the blast and sees a hooded figure fleeing via rooftop.

A local busker who always recites bad elven poetry is found one morning turned to stone.

A band of mimes have come to the city to perform a series of comedy shows. One of the mimes is a Doppleganger and is here to assassinate one of the party's allies.

A dance troupe, known for their public and surprise appearances (a "flashmob"), starts a performance in and around the party in the street. During the performance one of the dancers lunges at one of the party members and whispers, "Help me" in their ear, before carrying on with the spectacle.

A mysterious sculpture garden has "sprouted" in a main city street, seemingly grown from the very ground itself. All of the figures are depictions of body horror and some spectators have been driven mad or died after looking at them for too long.

Artist paints caricature portraits of passers-by which come to life at night to cause havoc.

There is a sand castle contest at the local beach. While digging a pit one contestant finds a wooden chest. It is sealed with arcane sigils and very dangerous. Inside is a lifeform.

The party is asked to investigate a local art gallery as the last known location of a model that has disappeared. The party finds extremely life like statues of various people, missing model included, and discovers the sculptor is a Maedar, with a pet Basilisk, trying to replicate his dead mate (a Medusa).

The party is invited to a studio for free painting lessons. The paint fumes trigger a spell that sends the party into a collective Dream. They must find their way out and defeat the Artist-Wizard and his pet Nothic before they are bled dry (to fuel a hideous ritual).

An audience-participation theater-event is occurring in one of the parks, and the party is encouraged to join, and are asked to put on some simple costumes. Upon doing so, they are swapped with hidden Clones, who continue the performance, while the party is teleported to an underground prison full of holding cells. There are dozens of other trapped citizens there.

A new popular song is all the rage and being sung by drunken bravos and university students alike. The song has a 10% to transfer an audio-parasite, that will drive the singer mad and ultimately into a catatonic state over the course of 7 days. During this time they will be compelled to sing the “hook” over and over, in the hopes of infecting any nearby listeners.

A master tattooist has set up a temporary shop on the fringes of the city. For a hefty fee, the customer will receive an exquisite piece of personal art, and on full moons, the tattoo will be able to sense the presence of magic, poisons, disease, or creature types (DMs choice). The master will leave after 24 hours, never to be seen again and the tattoo will fade completely after 30 days.

An artist is painting landscapes on the street. She says she’ll paint any place the customer desires. For a fee, she can make the painting a one-time portal to that place. The portals always go to the wrong location (this is discovered after travel has occurred).

A local homeless man, who mimes for money along the Promenade and in the Park, suddenly finds his invisible walls and pretend ropes are real. Passersby run into invisible walls of force left behind by him, people are dragged to him by his invisible rope, and he now hides in a corner of the park, afraid he will hurt others with this newfound power. The local Telekinesis Guild (bunch of filthy impostors and con artists, mostly) are furious that he has what they secretly do not, and has put a bounty on him, paid upon live delivery to their guild house.

A local street band is performing the show of their life and the music has become magical. Any Bards present will be able to “draw” 1-3 new spells from the performance. All others will be Blessed for the next 48 hours.

An artist has set up a crude telescope, pointing at the ground. For a small fee, you can look through the telescope and see a miniature world, full of tiny blue humanoids in a stone-age environment. The telescope is enchanted with a very detailed Major Illusion spell that allows the humanoids to be seen, and is also Cursed to drive the viewer mad by causing them to see the tiny blue humanoids everywhere they go. The curse will begin 24 hours after using the telescope and will persist for 30 days or until the victim goes mad, or dies. The Curse will manifest the humanoids as watching, then menacing, then threatening, then murderous.

Some Elven sculptors have set up a “Century Garden” - plinths of stone overhung by apparatus with funnels in different angles and locations that drip acids onto the stone - slowly forming the final form of the artists vision. The artist is selling tickets (valid in 100 years) to attend the ceremony.

## NIGHTLIFE (02)
A local tavern is showcasing a new lager and a spruiker is on the streets handing out "1/2 off" coupons to passersby. The party is given "2 free drinks" coupons on purpose by the NPC. A stranger is waiting inside that wants to talk to the party.

A dance club, on a typical night, has been infiltrated by an Avatar of Bacchus and has caused the party to spill into the streets where it has been pulling in passersby. The party is caught up in the crowd.

An exclusive nightclub has opened, membership only. One of the party’s allies goes missing and was last seen there. The club is a coven of Sorcerers and every night they sacrifice a kidnapped customer to try to summon an Eldritch Horror.

A hot club in town is secretly run by vampires. Cover charge is 1 pint of blood. Thralls being thralls, one of them talks, and a Hunter has gotten wind of the nest. The party will see him interrogating a thrall and escalating to torture.

A drunken brawl spills out of a tavern near the party. The fight is brutal, involving makeshift weapons and ends up overtaking the party. If they do not flee, during the fracas the party notices that one of the brawlers is biting his opponents and swallowing the flesh. If they do flee, they hear the next day that a pile of half-eaten bodies was discovered in the aftermath. A new zombie-master has come to town.

While out drinking, the party sees a Silver Elf enter the tavern, and time slows to 50% of its current speed for all but the party and Elf, who remain at 100%. The Elf asks the party if they would like to play a game of chess. If they say no, the Elf vanishes, and time returns to normal. If they agree they must wager a precious/strong/important memory against the answer to any question. The Elf has an INT modifier of +4 and a +4 proficiency in gaming. Upon the conclusion of the game, the Elf vanishes and time returns to normal. The bar patrons never see the Elf.

While in a tavern, a game of darts among some locals concludes in violence and 2 end up dead. On one of the deceased bodies is a treasure map that leads to a guarded vault in the wilderness.

A particularly virulent STD is going around the brothels. Over the course of 72 hours it turns the afflicted into a receptor for mental dominance from a powerful psion. The “Mind Taker” uses these puppets to rob the afflicted and deliver their valuables to a guarded location. Then the psion drains the puppet of its final mental faculties and stores it as an energy source for later. The bodies are then destroyed using a Rod of Disintegration. One of the party’s allies (or a party member themselves) has come down with a case of “The Threads” (so named for the red lines of infection radiating from the genitalia into the legs and torso.

A dance club has been cursed by a witch to afflict some (30%) of the customers with “Otiluke’s Irresistible Dance”. Some patrons have been dropping dead from it and the club owners are covering it up by secretly burying the bodies in the basement and drugging the witnesses. The party is present for this or one of their allies goes missing.

A man attempting to throw a party so massive he will officially become “the God of Partying” wants the players to help him throw an absolute rager. If they help, he will remember them fondly when he reaches godhood. The party could overrun the region/city.

The party finds a club throwing a rager in the party’s honor. All night, people toast the party members, dance with them, and celebrate. No one in the party has to pay for drinks. The next day, the party gets the bill for everyone's drinks. The tavern was told the event was for the party and would be paid for by them as well.

A new fad in the high-end taverns of the city, catering to young noblemen with too much money and not enough sense, is a drink called The Kiss. One part grain alcohol, one part pufferfish venom - a shot of this causes hallucinations and numbness, in addition to more than the usual drunkenness. Two young men, heirs to fortunes and titles in the court, have died in the last two nights. Word is they drank too many of these. The noble families want blood, and put bounties on all known bartenders serving This Kiss. The guard don’t want a riot on their hands if they interfere with the Mixologist’s Guild, the most powerful multinational trade guild in the world. A representative from the Crown has summoned the party, to discreetly investigate the explosive situation.

A group of drunks stumble towards the party and push through/past them. During this, the party will each be subject to a Pickpocket attempt (+8 Sleight of Hand). If discovered, the “drunks” are a pack of rogues who “own” this territory. If challenged, they will flee and return with a number of Thugs equal to the number of party members.

A grifter comes up to the party and bets that they can guess “where you got your boots/shoes”. The answer is “on your feet” (where the footwear currently is). The grifter will demand a small amount of cash after this, and will become hostile if denied or hassled.

An avatar of Bacchus/Dionysus appears in the area and begins a Revel. Those who hear the music or see the dancing/drinking must save vs Wisdom (DC 20) or join in. The Revel will last for 72-96 hours and leave partygoers with 3 levels of Exhaustion (and be many miles from where it started).

A Dwarven “thrashgnome” band is throwing an impromptu concert on the roof of a local tavern. The noise is deafening and a large brawl will erupt after awhile - during the fracas an object will find itself at the feet of one of the party members. It is a powerful Fetish that was stolen from a Witch (who has been seeking it, and is nearby).

The party enters a tavern to discover their money is “no good” and they are suddenly crowned “Lager Kings/Queens” for the night, and feted and welcomed by each individual tavern patron. The party will, as the sun rises, be poisoned by the insinuative poison that was in each successive drink, and if they fail a Con check vs a high DC, they will be magically Sleep’ed and find themselves strapped to a basement altar for a hatchling Gold Dragon to feed upon. If they succeed on the check, they are very ill and considered Incapacitated for the next 24 hours.

A new tavern has appeared in the area, and will vanish after the night’s festivities to appear in a random location in the world the next night. The tavern patrons are all Fey, and this is the “Wandering Druid Pub”.

A dealer is handing out “free tokes” of a new narcotic. The narcotic is powerful and hallucinatory, but harmless otherwise, except for the addiction rate, which is near 100%. A Con check vs a high DC is required. If failed, the user must take the drug again in the next 24 hours or suffer 2 levels of Fatigue. Every day without the drug thereafter confers another level of Fatigue. If the check is passed, they will become violently nauseous every time they take the drug again.

A group of Gnomish Brewmasters have set up a tasting booth on the street and are giving out free samples of “Old Brown Mare” - a powerful stout that has a tiny side effect - 10% of the imbibers are shrunk to Gnomish height for 24 hours.

(OPTIONAL) - A cadre of bound Incubi and Succubi have escaped from a brothel and are desperately seeking an escape from the area. They will make any deal possible to make this happen.

## SHOPPING (03)
While looking for weapons, a party member "accidentally" activates a sentient weapon, who declares the party member as "master" and demands to know what has happened since it was "put to sleep".

While shopping, one or more of the party members is pickpocketed by a young kid who is part of an "urchin gang". This gang is an arm of one of the more powerful rogue guilds in the city.

A street vendor is selling “gag gifts”, guaranteed to ensure the perfect prank. All the objects are cursed, and the vendor reveals this as if they were joking, as part of the shtick.

Upon purchasing a normal mundane item, it is found to be hollow, with an unknown substance hidden inside of it. If left undiscovered, the person who sold it will try to get the item back, by negotiation or violence, it depends on the party’s willingness to part with it.

A certain type of plush toy is all the rage in this city, and the party will acquire one upon their next purchase - all the merchants were paid to distribute these as “customer incentives.” The toys act as scrying focus for the local thieves guild. The party’s lodgings will be robbed within 24 hours obtaining the toy.

An extraordinary amount of the richer folk of the town have gathered on the plaza. Gregory’s Golden Garments has arrived back in town from one of his far-off trading junkets. He brings the most exclusive textiles and materials to town, and the auction has started (dragon-skins, silk, etc.). During the auction, someone purchases a rare bolt of material and the party finds it in their room later, with instructions to hide it. If they don’t, a group of Assassins come looking for it. If they do, they will be contacted by a mysterious agent who asks them to transport it far away for a hefty fee.

An Annual Food Festival kicks off with much fanfare. However, someone has poisoned the foodstuffs and half the city is sick with nausea and other vile emissions. The organisers, afraid to lose their heads, have set a hefty bounty for finding the culprit(s), and one of these pamphlets is pushed on the party.

While shopping for weapons, a woman approaches the party and asks them to sell a weapon for her, as she cannot. She explains that the weapon is Cursed and will not allow itself to be sold by the owner. If the party agrees, she looks visible relieved and hands the item over. Now the weapon belongs to the party member who took it (and it cannot be sold). The item is a -1 weapon.

A small purse keeps whispering at a player for them to buy it. It remains silent when others are observing it and refuses to talk if it thinks anyone else can hear it. It says it can help them (count money, hide it from pickpockets, and offer insight) if they give it something in return (it wants costly gemstones).

Every store and restaurant the party enters seems to be run by the same person. If confronted, they laugh and say they “get that all the time”, but will profess ignorance otherwise. The merchants are all Dopplegangers and today is their “Day of Pranks”. If two merchants are forced together, they will become violent and the others will run out to join them.

The party finds a flyer shoved under their lodging’s door that promises “75% off all Adventuring Gear” at a local merchant. The merchant is very chatty and inquisitive and will press the party for information about where they are going next. The merchant then sells this information to a gang of rogues who will follow the party and attempt to rob them as they exit the dungeon.

While shopping for clothes, a party member hears a weeping noise. No one around seems to be crying, so if this is investigated, the member finds a top hat that seems to be the source. If the hat is put on, the party member is Cursed with a particularly nasty form of melancholia.

The next time an item of clothing is purchased, the party member discovers that it has a large “Pocket Dimension” concealed within its folds. There is an object already inside the pocket.

A beautiful man/woman approaches the lowest CHA party member and offers to make their “dreams come true” if they will sell their soul. The man/woman will cast a real Wish on behalf of the party member (which works without the usual DM fuckery, but will expire in 1 year, and a group of Devils will appear to collect the player’s soul). If refused, the man/woman will leave, but if confronted, they will flee. The man/woman is a mortal humanoid who simply shills for a Crossroads Devil.

While shopping for arrows/projectiles, the merchant offers the party a “one-time deal” of some special projectiles that are “guaranteed to strike their target every time” and will demonstrate this quality in a shooting lane set up in the back of the shop. The projectile will work as promised within the shop itself, without limit, but outside the shop, the first 3 only will work as promised and the rest will automatically fail-to-hit. If confronted later, the shopkeeper will claim ignorance and claim the party member is lying (even going so far as to call the Watch for harassment).

The city is having a 50% sale, city-wide, for the next 24 hours. Rogues know this too, and are everywhere, preying on the crowds, or following them home to be robbed later.

While shopping for provisions, the merchant says they are looking for “exotic meat hunters”, and will pay top prices for “anything unusual” without limit, provided the meat is delivered dressed.

A new confectionery store has opened and is giving away free samples in the streets. The sweets are mildly intoxicating, and have the added side-effect of making those who eat them very amorous for the next 8 hours. The owners are clerics of the Deity of Love.

An arsonist is burning down merchant shops, by “category”. The perpetrator is a failed businessperson themselves, and is merely seeking revenge. The first things burned are the weapon and armor shops.

While shopping for armor, the merchant offers to show the party a “special selection” of exotic armor. These are all very unusual and very expensive. This is a one-time offer that will never be repeated and if confronted, the merchant will claim ignorance as to the existence of the exotic armors, and if the shop is searched, they are nowhere to be found.

## ENTERTAINMENT (04)
The party receives an anonymous gift of entry passes to an exclusive and private club in the city. At the club, the party is approached by cultists who attempt to persuade the party into joining.

The museum is showcasing some rare artifacts. While visiting, the party is present during the brazen theft of one of the objects - an item of unique and dangerous powers.

Zoo animals have escaped and are menacing the population!

A local sage sends an urgent message to the party about a matter of great importance. The sage, a bit senile, has gotten mixed up and this is not the group he was supposed to contact. He does not realize this and treats the party as if they were hired to retrieve a book from an old, guarded crypt. If the party refuses, the Sage will eventually be foolish enough to try it himself and the party will hear about his death.

A public estate sale of one of the city’s wealthiest families is announced. The prices are high, but the quality equally impressive. In the announcement is an object that the party or one of the party members has been looking for. If they attend the sale, they discover the price is three times higher than they can afford (even after pooling money or getting a loan). The security is strong but not impossible...

The museum is showcasing the preserved remains of a long-dead monster race as part of a traveling exhibition. During a tour, or at night when closed, the monsters are revived by an interested party, and they go on a murderous spree. They attack either the party (along with many others) or one of the party’s allies.

A series of foreign street magicians has entered town and perform solo acts all over town. One of them is near the party, and they need a volunteer for a (permanent) disappearing act.

A street corner storyteller is spinning a tale of adventure and peril to a crowd. The tale sounds suspiciously like the last adventure the party had.

While eating, the party sees a puppet show happening nearby. They find it (magically) difficult to avert their eyes from the felt performers and can see figures moving out of the corners of their eyes. These are Oblique Golems, and can only move when not being viewed. The golems will attempt to rob anyone nearby. The puppets are just puppets.

An Escape Room boasts a valuable prize for any group who can escape/solve the room before the hourglass fills. Several of the puzzles in the escape room align runes and involve magic words of power. If the party manages to complete the room, they complete the spell, finding a portal now open above the building. Demons pour from it into the town, and it cannot be closed for at least 24 hours.

Some fire-jugglers are performing in the street, and they appear to be using magic to create illusionary figures that leap from the burning torches. These are actually Mephits, and the fire-jugglers did not summon them, they appeared on their own. They run off to cause havoc and burn as much of the city as they can.

A local casino is offering big prizes to “Spin the Wheel” - with only a 5% chance of winning, this is mostly a scam, but those who play are Wizard-Marked to be robbed later. The prizes for actually winning are 4-figures.

A pig-racing track has been cordoned off - turning the streets into the racecourse. All are welcome to enter, and whoever wins is offered a lucrative contract joining the “Hog Ridin’ Circuit” - a racing tournament involving half-a-dozen cities and some very shady dealings.

A masked spruiker hands the party an ornately engraved thin metal plaque inviting them to an exclusive event at a place called “The Garden”, and a map is etched on the reverse side. The event, if attended, presents the party with an opportunity to travel to another plane and earn the favor of a powerful, if enigmatic figure.

A group of acrobats are performing feats and stunts in the street. During the performance, one of the party members sees the face of one of the tumblers momentarily change into something monstrous.

A pair of dueling Illusionists is staging an elaborate mock-battle in a nearby park, but neglected to inform anyone of this beforehand and have caused a panic.

A tour group suddenly appears and engulfs the party. The guide is pointing out places where famous adventurers have died, and suddenly points right where the party is standing and begins discussing them as if they were not there! The tour group can not be interacted with (as they are projections from the future) and soon quickly departs and vanishes around a corner.

A street lottery is being held by a local neighborhood social group. The cost is low and any tickets purchased are said to go towards upgrading the local park. There is a 50% that the party wins a modest prize of home-baked goods. The locals will send a message to the party later that their tickets were fraudulent and demand a return of the prize or the equivalent value in currency. This “lottery” is a common scam run in the area on obvious tourists.

During an previous-announced free concert by some famous Bards, a bomb explodes.

A street comedian is inadvertently casting “Tasha’s Hideous Laughter” on audience members. The phenomenon is soon discovered and the comedian flees. Later, he is found dead and covered in a thin slime.

## SPORTS (05)
The party receives an anonymous gift of tickets to a local sporting match. If they attend, they are approached by an NPC who says they represent a "person who wishes to remain nameless, but desires to procure your services in a delicate, and potentially dangerous matter."

The party is invited by a local ally to attend a boxing match. At the match both fighters are killed by a powerful assassin who works in secret for a local politician.

The party attends a game of skill and is accused of bribing a ref to throw the game by a rogue (who did actually rig the fight, but now has been caught and is desperate). A few of his crew will back him up and some of the crowd sides with them.

A marathon race has been scheduled to wind through the city as part of a larger season of racing. A number of famous people and some talented locals will participate. During the race, several of the runners suddenly collapse and begin coughing blood. This is the start of a disease outbreak, and will, without precautions, infect over half the city in only 72 hours. The source is magical in nature, and part of a larger scheme to cripple the city by a secret faction.

A bare-knuckle street match has been set up by an enterprising rogue/wizard. A series of ringers are inviting all-comers to challenge for a fat purse. Those who fight are wizard-marked, and followed later, to be kidnapped and bound for a fighting-arena in the Underdark.

An illegal horse race, infamous in the city for causing multiple deaths every year, is about to commence once again. The street the party currently finds themselves in will turn into the aftermath of a battlefield within several seconds. The race has no rules and is heavily wagered upon by the criminal elements of the city.

A “Circus Maximus” involving blood-sport, animal fighting, and a “nautical spectacle” is going to be held at the city’s largest stadium. The public is allowed to sign up to fight in one of the 3 events. The purse for winning is generous (5 figures) and is, of course, rigged and being carefully watched by the strongest Rogues Guild in the city, who stand to make a pile of money. If the party participates, they will see that some of their opponents have been enchanted with speed and strength.

An annual Guards Competition is about to commence. They are divided into 4 teams, and the locals have lifelong and fierce loyalties

In one quarter is an annual event - the Endurance Drinking Contest. A group of competitors take a shot, perform a task, take a shot, perform a different task, repeat. The winner gets a trophy, their portrait on the wall of winners, and bragging rights. The tasks range from silly to nearly impossible.

A mounted race is about to commence, and the party runs into a thick crowd along the edges of the route. If the party chooses to stay to watch, they will see one of the riders being assassinated from a position high above the streets by a mage’s spell.

A traveling ball-team is looking for a manager and some bodyguards, and one of the party’s allies has recommended the party, as a joke. The team shows up where the party is to conduct an interview.

A boxing match has resulted in a death and the angry and bewildered crowd has spilled out into the streets in a terrible brawl, hurting bystanders and destroying property. If the body is examined, 3 small holes in the back of the dead boxer’s neck can be found and 3 small projectiles found inside the wound. The trail leads to a mage’s henchman.

Illegal cart-racing has been taking place at night among the city’s youth and an ally of the party is terribly worried about their child’s possible-participation. The racing will soon claim lives.

The Dozens has arrived in the city - a nationwide, very famous content of insults and put-downs. The entry fee is to survive a round-robin of burns during The Throwdown, where hundreds will enter. The prize is bragging rights, a 4-figure cash prize, and the chance to defend their title next year.

An ally of the party has entered a marathon footrace. During the race, the ally disappears.

A Fishing Derby, the 1st of 3 contests each year, is being held by any who wish to pay the modest entry fee. There is only one rule - you cannot use a traditional rod/reel, fly, or net/seine to catch the fish. The Derby draws the inventive and the mad, and lasts over 3 days.

A professional team of Goliath and Dwarven “Chicken Fighters” arrive at the city for an exhibition match in the city’s swimming pool. One of the Goliath recognizes a party member (whether the members also remembers them, or not) and offers free tickets. During the match, one of the Dwarves is hurt, and after a flurry of rules-consultations, its determined that a substitute is allowed. The party is looked at by the Goliath and asked for help.

A ping-pong match is being staged between Royal cousins, to settle a dispute. The match is going to be public, and during it, both Royals disappear and are replaced with monkeys. Uproar ensues.

The party finds out there is an underground avian-fighting event happening below the tavern. When they go to investigate, they find a goose and a rooster on opposite sides of a metal chess board pushing the pieces around randomly. A ref resets illegal moves and pulls captured pieces from the board. The crowd roars wildly, screaming for their bird to win the game. The party is approached by a grifter who says he knows who’s going to win and will sell the info. The grifter’s prediction will prove right 2 times, then wrong the 3rd time.

An illegal blood-sport fighting match has caused the death of a local celebrity and the party has been framed for the murder.

## NAUTICAL (06)
A local ally invites the party on a fishing trip. While on the trip, the vessel is attacked by a desperate band of Kuo-Toa, who appear to be diseased and attack with a more-than-usual savage aggression.

The city is holding a yachting regatta and the party is present when one of the ships catches fire. Many accusations are bandied about and most seem to blame one of the city’s administrators who had a grudge.

A seasonal storm rushes over the city does significant (and costly) damage to the local fleets (and any ships the party might have moored here). Trade and travel is stalled and only a hefty bribe and some forceful diplomacy can secure any movement needs that the party might have.

A local mad-wizard-inventor is launching a submarine and has asked for volunteer pilots and crew. If the party accepts, they are attacked by a great white shark. If they do not, the sub is sunk by the shark. The mad-wizard will try again next month with a new design. If the shark has been killed, this version will find a sunken treasure worth a king’s fortune.

The party is invited to a beach party by an ally. While there, a number of party-goers find themselves suddenly growing gills and webbed feet and toes and a strong urge to enter the ocean. They have been drugged by a Sahuagin Sorcerer, who is trying to build an “amphibious army” to attack the town and destroy it.

A large number of Brachia (Crab-Folk) have surfaced in the bay and are attempting to communicate via the Dream spell (which will manifest as the entire town committing suicide, and this will be dreamed en-masse by the locals). This dream is not a threat, but a warning of what will happen if the townsfolk don’t rid themselves of a recently-acquired magic item (by the party themselves, or by another adventuring group). They have 72 hours to unravel the mystery.

A number of Were-Sharks are attacking swimmers at night (mostly kids/young adults out partying on the beach). These therianthropes are not aware of their actions, but know something is wrong. While shape-changed, they work as a team, like wolves.

While passing a street they encounter a group of semi-drunken sailors. The sailors start a brawl with the party, for their fun. When magic or weapons are used things will get nasty as the sailors will pull shivs, long knives, chains, and cudgels.

Something has turned the ocean red and fish are dying in great numbers.

A large statue that could be worth a lot is trapped in a cavern in the water. If the party can retrieve it without additional help, they can claim it as their own, sell it, and keep all of the profits. If they enlist any help, the local authorities will take over the operation and claim the statue for themselves.

During a sailboat race, a school of merfolk begin harassing and destroying the boats.

A group of traveling sailors try to sell famous and popular books, paintings, and equipment to the party at a great price. Upon closer inspection, the items appear to be forgeries.

A seadragon is heading for the coast, but rumor has it she will slumber if told a bedtime story. In order for her to hear it, the party must intercept her and shout the story from aboard a ship. But it better be a good story.

An ocean water spirit wants to visit a fellow spirit friend who is further inland. They will make a path over land of water they can travel through. The party can try to convince the spirit to follow their path and plot a nondestructive course, or they can try to stop the spirit from visiting their friend through force.

For three days, no one has been able to catch a fish with a hook and line. Nothing even bites, something just cuts the lines before any fish can bite.

Tidal Wave!

A local surfer has gone missing and only his surfboard is found on the beach, covered in a black slime. Days later, his head (missing the eyes) washes ashore.

An Aboleth has awoken in the bay and starts calling minions to serve it. Some of them are townsfolk, and possibly the Mayor as well.

A waterspout threatens the docked ships in the harbor. It is not a natural occurrence.

A pack of Scrag (Sea Trolls) have started plucking beachcombers from the shoreline.

## EVENTS (07)
A historical walking tour of the city is being offered at a discount. This is a great way to lore dump and pass along rumors/hooks.

The party is invited by a local ally to attend a tour of the city's finest restaurants. On the tour, the friend is poisoned and dies.

The city is celebrating its anniversary with fireworks and street food and music. During the celebration, the party is attacked by a band of spectral undead who leave behind a burned mark/graffito on a wall.

During the inauguration of a new High Priest of the most powerful temple in the city, an “unscheduled eclipse” darkens the skies for 8 hours. This is seen as an evil omen and factional violence suddenly breaks out among the population.

The borders of the town close, and guards posted outside will not let people out. A deadly disease was discovered in the town, and it will remain quarantined until a cure is found, or everyone is dead.

Juwua Crostuo- the self-proclaimed greatest baker in the district- challenges anyone to out-bake him. If they succeed, the prize is a nice amount of gold.

Someone enchanted the animals in the taxidermy shop, and now they are tearing up the district, hurting and scaring people and causing property damage. A large predator finds itself near the party’s location.

A mad prophet has begun preaching dire omens on street corners. Most consider the prophecies hogwash, but a small group believe and are preparing for the apocalypse.

A local group of artificers are showcasing their latest creations with a parade of marching automations. During the parade one of the automations goes wild, attacking the crowd, and a valuable invention is stolen in the chaos.

A party of adventurers have returned from the sewers bearing riches and tales of ancient ruins, sparking half the city to go treasure hunting.

For two days, no one has been able to sleep. Everyone is suffering and at each other’s throats.

A circus consisting only of cat performers is drawing quite a crowd. How are they so well coordinated? A figure is watching the party from the shadows.

Something is causing the party’s hair to fall out, one square inch at a time.

During a captivating street show, the party notices a cutpurse moving through the crowd stealing purses, but see another cutpurse sneakily stealing from the first, and then a third sneakily stealing from the second, then a fourth sneakily stealing from the third, then a fifth, sixth, seventh and so on until the party realizes they're in a loop of illusion distractions, and their coin purses and some of their valuable equipment is gone.

A magician is pouring magic liquid on inanimate objects which is making them come to life. The objects talk and perform their intended task on their own. After the show, the object starts to understand more of what is happening to it and questions what's going on. At that point, the magician abandons the object in an ally. There is now a small colony of frightened and confused living objects in ally.

Golden storm clouds roll in, crackling with lightning and pounding with thunder. Instead of rain, the clouds release a shower of silver coins. The people create makeshift armor to protect themselves from the pelting coins and flood the streets, collecting all they can. Fighting-or worse- is imminent.

A wild-magic storm sweeps over the city, bringing about irrevocable change.

Someone has awakened all the weapons in the local weaponsmith’s shop and now there is a full-blown civil war going on.

The King/Queen/Whomever has been assassinated!

A UFO appears hovering over the city one day. The visitors are peaceful.

## PERSONAL (08)
One of the party members receives a message at their home/room that they are in great danger. The note begs the PC to "come with all haste" to an address in one of the seedier parts of town. This is a setup for an ambush/robbery.

One of the party's allies comes with "hat in hand" to beg for start-up funds for a day spa. The ally has a silent partner, a dangerous rogue, who has threatened to kill the ally unless they have their half of the investment in the next day or two.

A person the party could vaguely remember from something joins their company for a little while. Whenever the opportunity presents itself this NPC will stab one of the PC’s in the heart, claiming they ruined their lives for something (irresponsible) they did (Everyone has such an NPC).

A PC receives a letter from a local lawyer when entering the city or having had to pass some papers. The lawyer claims that a relative of them died several years ago and they finally found a relative to pass the inheritance to. Upon arriving at the rich looking office they are read the inheritance which includes a small house in the city, a brewery/smithy/something, and a sum of gold that has been growing with interest. They are asked to pay the lawyers fees of (significant sum at about 20% of the worth of the inheritance) for keeping the account open. There is no inheritance, just white collar crime.

The party is offered half off for a pedicure to make them feel better. After paying, the party is given the new adorable and cuddly pet they just adopted to cure any sadness that may crop up.

A party member catches someone they know (parent, sibling, good friend) who is married on a date with someone who is not their spouse.

A party member (or several, if appropriate) receive notice of the funeral services for a figure from their background. The service is in the city, and held soon, the next sacred day of the dearly deceased's faith. A young relative of the late NPC asks the party to attend, convinced the death was foul play and the murderer will be in attendance. She might be right, she might simply be overwhelmed with grief.

A chance encounter saving a person’s life gets the party invited to their birthday party, where the person is suddenly assassinated.

A huckster has game, close your eyes, hold out both hands, guess what they put in your hands, and win a prize. It feels warm and not quite solid. After guessing, the huckster says it is the dreams of (insert name of beloved NPC), and if they let go of it or don't give the dream back to the beloved NPC, the NPC will never wake.

A party member sees a random NPC wearing a meaningful or priceless family heirloom from that party member’s family. The NPC claims it is theirs and that they bought it from a pawn shop, which is the truth.

A party member gets a letter delivered by a courier from a sibling. The letter states “If you’re willing to help me and promise not to ask any questions, please meet me at (location).” The sibling had a curse put on them that if they answer a question, they will become inflicted with ghoul rot.

A charming NPC asks the most socially inept party members on a date.

On a party member’s birthday, that party member’s aunt shows up and says “There is a secret a member of our family has kept for 12 generations. On this day, it is my job to pass this secret to you. If you refuse, then the line is broken, and the secret shall end with me. I cannot tell you what it is unless you accept.”

A city guard drags a person to a party member and asks “This dragonborn says they know you, is that true?” The “dragonborn” is obviously 2 kobolds in a long coat. Their eyes beg for the party member to say “Of course!” If the party member says “No,” then the guard will drag the kobolds away and not answer any of the party member’s questions.

The party goes through a rather bizarre sequence of events, including doomsayers chanting in the streets about the end times. That evening, a massive dragon pierces through blackened storm clouds and burns the city, killing everyone including the party. The party wakes up that morning, events progressing just like they had the day before.

A party member who did something bad gets cursed with having their thoughts projected to everyone within a 30 ft radius, and everyone who can “hear” their thoughts knows they are their thoughts.

A party member receives word an estranged relative is being held captive. The contacted party member is “the only person who would even consider trying to help me.”

Each member of the party has an animal start following them (cat, dog, goose, rat, snake, iguana, miniature pony, cow. GM picks which ones). The animals all get along with each other, as if they know and like one another. If the players accept their presence, the animals start wordlessly beckoning them to a ravine near the edge of the city.

The party starts forgetting key memories from their lives. They are being stolen by a powerful Obliviax.

The party is cursed by a vengeful witch and have had their genders swapped.

# 100 Adventure Ideas

A young child begins to manifest mage powers and is causing havoc.
A couple forbidden to be together runs off to a dangerous ruin.
The heroes must protect a noble from an assassin.
A tinkerer is selling dangerous arcane artifacts to unsuspecting buyers.
The popular new parties thrown by a noble are attracting the wrong type of attention.
A Blood Mage cult is abducting people to use for blood magic sacrifices.
Strange lights and sounds come from an old elven ruin.
A dying miner claims to have found a mother lode of lyreum.
A cursed item passes from hand to hand, corrupting those it touches.
A demon possesses a living person to fulfill an ancient obligation made with a person no longer alive.
Envoys are assigned to escort visiting ambassadors or representatives from nearby Banns.
A friend of the heroes asks for help in settling a duel of honor.
A respected noble is accused of serious crimes; is it a frame-up?
The body of a respected Avvar or Chasind chief must be escorted to his homelands in honor.
Intrigue abounds at a seasonal festival.
An encounter with an ancient arcane item alters the heroes in some way until they can find a cure.
The heroes dream about a previous Age. Are they reliving past lives?
There are rumors of a Tevinter Magister still existing as a spectre.
A mysterious killer stalks the nighttime streets of a city.
Two port towns dispute over the ownership of a sunken vessel.
The 'secret ingredient' of a fad food comes from the Korcari Wilds.
A child or family is lost in the wilderness and is in need of rescue.
Two embattled Teyrns are planning secret raids on a dwarven shipment of gold to the King.
Darkspawn are gathering, but why?
An ancient dwarven gate opens and disgorges darkspawn or other creatures.
A new prophet rises up in Orlais, sensing the threat of a Blight growing in Ferelden.
The Dalish call for aid against the werewolves invading their hunting grounds.
Blight wolves and blight bears emerge from the wilderness to attack outlying towns.
A young man begs the heroes to help stop a wedding because he is in love with the bride.
Thieves steal the royal seal from the palace.
Strangely intelligent darkspawn begin organizing into a mercenary company, working for the highest bidder.
Pirates attack merchant vessels along the coast.
A map to a lost artifact falls into the heroes' hands.
Apostates organize into a coven and begin sowing dissent and misery in outlying farms and villages.
A demon preys on dreams, twisting them into nightmares.
A lost storehouse of ancient lore is guarded by possessed corpses.
A terrible storm wracks the coast and islands. Locals believe it to be magical.
Chasind barbarians, led by an apostate mage, raid coastal settlements.
A wronged noble needs a champion to fight in a duel of honor.
A child missing for years is seen running through the woods late one night.
A quake in the Korcari Wilds reveals the ancient ruins of a Tevinter Mage's stronghold.
The Chantry asks the heroes to aid in smuggling missionaries out of the Korcari Wilds or Avvar Tribal Lands.
The heroes must guard a carvan through dangerous territory.
The Chantry threatens to execute a well-known friend, claiming that he or she is an apostate.
Accusations of corruption mar a deceased noble's memorial service.
Animals mysteriously attack the local chantry, driven by an ancient artifact kept among its relics.
A harsh winter leads to conflict between the Dalish and Chasind tribes.
Everyone in an isolated village has disappeared without a trace.
A fellen and dying hero seeks aid in achieving a measure of redemption and peace.
A daring thief steals from the wealthiest people of a city.
The planned site of a new settlement is plagued by darkspawn or worse.
Fereldans and a tribal community (Avvar, Dalish, or Chasind) dispute the clearing of some forest land.
Members of a powerful Tevinter or Dwarven merchant's family are targeted for assassination.
The king of Ferelden must move the court to a distant city for a time.
The heroes are assigned as the escort of a troublesome noble.
Miners in the mountains uncover a lost Thaig.
Tal'Vashoth raiders strike at outlying farms and villages, taking people to sell as slaves.
An apostate begins working with demon possessed corpses in the Korcari Wilds.
A Blood Mage cult hunts rare creatures to obtain strange arcane powers.
Rumors arise of a corrupt gryphon in the Brecilian forest.
The politics of the Circle Tower spill out into the most recent Landsmeet. Circle Mages demand appropriate representation.
A follower of Andraste begins to whip up fervor against all magic, calling for an Exalted March to destroy the Circle Tower and more.
An ancient dwarven golem is accidentally awakened.
A region of the kingdom is struck by plague. The cure lies in distant lands.
A young mage begins having visions of the future, which to date have always come true!
The Orlesians plan another invasion of Ferelden.
Foreign agents kidnap a noble's child to force cooperation.
A seemingly idyllic village is a front for a potent Blood Mage, who enforces peace and justice through magic.
The barbarian and tribal peoples of Ferelden contemplate war.
Relics are stolen from a chantry.
A Blood Mage or Apostate uses magic to grant unearthly beauty to any willing to pay for it.
Mabari kennels are plagued by attacks from horrible creatures normally found in the Deep Roads.
The son or daughter of a visiting foreign dignitary falls in love with a young knight in Denerim.
The heirs of two feuding noble families wish to marry despite their families' wishes.
A noble is poisoned in an assassination attempt, and the heroes must rush to find a cure in time.
The heroes must enter the Fade to overcome a powerful demon's curse.
Mages throughout the realm dream of someone calling for help from a distant land.
A town suffering a blight claims they were cursed by the Dalish.
A fire tears through a forest sacred to the Dalish (or other tribal community).
A young city elf runs off to join the Dalish, but her parents insist she returns.
The heroes awaken the morning after a seasonal festival with no memory of the previous three days.
A mysterious performer, the toast of the theater, may be an Orlesian or Tevinter spy.
A rejected squire seeks to prove himself worthy of knighthood.
A contact claims to have information, then turns up dead.
All of the children of a small community are altered or disappeared by darkspawn magic.
A fiery Fereldan Noble agitates for a preemptive war against the Orlesian Empire to overthrow the usurper and liberate the people.
A scholar asks for aid in exploring ancient ruins.
A noblewoman's journal or love letters fall into the wrong hands.
The heroes are asked to help break off an adulterous affair without the wronged spouse finding out.
A few chantries in Ferelden have fallen under the sway of the Orlesian Chantry, attracting radical power-seekers.
Avvar or Chasind raiders attack Fereldan settlers who inadvertently trespassed onto sacred ground.
An intelligent darkspawn offers to establish a non-agression treaty on behalf of the Archdemon.
A noble attempts a coup to become king of Ferelden.
A girl in Orlais can perform miracles without magic, and receives visions from Andraste, or so it seems.
A group of city elves want a settlement entirely in their hands.
A group of werewolves claim they want to settle peacefully in a Fereldan forest.
A ghost ship, captained by a shade, preys on vessels in the Amaranthine Ocean. (This could be changed to a pirate ship.)
A noble widow receives advice from the shade of her dead consort. Is it a trick or threat?
A radical noble appears to have the blessing of the Landsmeet to replace the current king.
