# 60-е

1960s	Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band	The Beatles

Elvis Presley
Chuck Berry
Beatles
Bob Dylan
Johnny Cash
Led Zeppelin
Rolling Stones

Ray Charles - Hit the Road Jack
Johnny Cash - Ring of Fire
Elvis Presley - Can't Help Falling in Love
Animals - 
Bob Dylan - 
James Brown - 
The Mammas & The Pappas -
The Beach Boys - 
The Beatles -
The Rolling Stones -

Simon & Garfunkel
The Rolling Stones
Elvis Presley
Steppenwolf
The Beatles

* 1960	Original Broadway Cast	–	The Sound of Music	[5]
* 1961	Original Broadway Cast	–	Camelot	[6]
* 1961	G.I. Blues	Elvis Presley	
* 1962	Soundtrack	–	West Side Story	[7]
* 1962	West Side Story	Original Soundtrack	
* 1963	Soundtrack	–	West Side Story	[8]
* 1963	With the Beatles	The Beatles	
* 1964	Original Broadway Cast	–	Hello, Dolly!	[9]
* 1964	Beatles for Sale	
* Иван Жук - Все на продажу (64)
* Иван Жук - Вечер трудного дня (64)
* 1965	Soundtrack	–	Mary Poppins	[10]
* 1965	The Sound of Music	Original Soundtrack	
* Иван Жук - Резиновая душа (65)
* Иван Жук - На помощь! (65)
* Анатолий Кто - Мое поколение (65)
* 1966	Herb Alpert & The Tijuana Brass	United States	Whipped Cream & Other Delights	[11]
* Иван Жук - Револьвер (66)
* Михаил Каталкин - Возмездие (66)
* 1967	The Monkees	United States	More of The Monkees	[12]
* 1967	Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band	The Beatles	751,000
* Иван Жук - Сержант Пеппер (67)
* Евгений Морозов - Двери (67)
* Йими Руксон - Теперь вы довольны? (67)
* 1968	The Jimi Hendrix Experience	United States	Are You Experienced?	[13]
* 1968	The Sound of Music	Original Soundtrack	
* 1969	Iron Butterfly	United States	In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida	[14]
* 1969	Abbey Road	The Beatles	
* Иван Жук - Аббатская дорога (69)
* Леонид Запилен - Леонид Запилен II (69)
* Константин Кримзон - При дворе кроваво-красного короля (69)
* Ростислав Креданс-Чистяков - Зеленая река (69)

1960	Frank Sinatra	Come Dance with Me!	
Belafonte at Carnegie Hall – Harry Belafonte
More Music From Peter Gunn – Henry Mancini
Rachmaninoff Piano Concerto No. 3 – Van Cliburn
Victory at Sea, Vol. 1 – Robert Russell Bennett
[6]
1961	Bob Newhart	The Button-Down Mind of Bob Newhart	
Belafonte Returns to Carnegie Hall – Harry Belafonte
Brahms: Concert No. 2 in B-Flat – Sviatoslav Richter
Nice 'n' Easy – Frank Sinatra
Puccini: Turandot – Erich Leinsdorf
Wild Is Love – Nat King Cole
[7]
1962	Judy Garland	Judy at Carnegie Hall	
Breakfast at Tiffany's Soundtrack – Henry Mancini
Genius+Soul=Jazz – Ray Charles
Great Band with Great Voices – Si Zentner & the Johnny Mann Singers
The Nat King Cole Story – Nat King Cole
West Side Story Soundtrack – Various Artists
[8]
1963	Vaughn Meader	The First Family	
I Left My Heart in San Francisco – Tony Bennett
Jazz Samba – Stan Getz & Charlie Byrd
Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music – Ray Charles
My Son, the Folk Singer – Allan Sherman
[9]
1964	Barbra Streisand	The Barbra Streisand Album	
Bach's Greatest Hits – The Swingle Singers
Days of Wine and Roses and Other TV Requests – Andy Williams
Honey in the Horn – Al Hirt
The Singing Nun – The Singing Nun
[10]
1965	Stan Getz & João Gilberto (with Astrud Gilberto & Antonio Carlos Jobim)	Getz/Gilberto	
Cotton Candy – Al Hirt
Funny Girl: Original Broadway Cast – Various Artists
People – Barbra Streisand
The Pink Panther – Henry Mancini
[11]
1966	Frank Sinatra
produced by Sonny Burke	September of My Years	
Help! – The Beatles
My Name Is Barbra – Barbra Streisand
My World – Eddy Arnold
The Sound of Music Soundtrack – Various Artists
[12]
1967	Frank Sinatra
produced by Sonny Burke	A Man and His Music	
Color Me Barbra – Barbra Streisand
Dr. Zhivago Soundtrack – Maurice Jarre
Revolver – The Beatles
What Now My Love – Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass
[13]
1968	The Beatles
produced by George Martin	Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band	
Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim – Frank Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim
It Must Be Him – Vikki Carr
My Cup Runneth Over – Ed Ames
Ode to Billie Joe – Bobbie Gentry
[14]
1969	Glen Campbell
produced by Al De Lory	By the Time I Get to Phoenix	
Bookends – Simon & Garfunkel
Feliciano! – José Feliciano
Magical Mystery Tour – The Beatles
A Tramp Shining – Richard Harris
[15]

1965	Rubber Soul	The Beatles	157	Highway 61 Revisted - Bob Dylan (109), A Love Supreme - John Coltrane (65), My Generation - The Who (54)
1966	Revolver	The Beatles	150	Pet Sounds - The Beach Boys (128), Blonde On Blonde - Bob Dylan (40), Sounds of Silence - Simon & Garfunkel (18)
1967	Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band	The Beatles	194	The Velvet Underground & Nico - The Velvet Underground (111), Are You Experienced - The Jimi Hendrix Experience (86), Eponymous - The Doors (35)
1968	The Beatles (White Album)	The Beatles	352	Electric Ladyland - The Jimi Hendrix Experience (181), White Light/White Heat - The Velvet Underground (81), Bookends - Simon & Garfunkel (46)
1969	Abbey Road	The Beatles	176	Eponymous - The Velvet Underground (89), Led Zeppelin II - Led Zeppelin (89), In the Court of the Crimson King - King Crimson (71)
